{title}
boolean analysis: hypercontractivity
{contents}

{description}
This is a stub. I will *expand* it later.
I'm serious pun aside. I really didn't have time to write  it all
down yet.
{body}

Very often you have some norms and you want to compare them.

beg defn
Let $f:\set{-1,1}\to \R$. Define the p-norm as 
$$ ||f||_p = \left(\E_x |f(x)|^{p}\right)^{1/p}. $$ 
end defn
beg ex
$$ ||f||_1 = \E_x |f(x)|, $$ 
$$ ||f||_\infty = \sup_x |f(x)|. $$ 
end ex

It is easy to see that for all $p<q$ we have
$$ ||f||_p \le ||f||_q. $$ 

But what if you wanted the inequality to point the other way?
It turns out that for nice enough functions you can get something
kind of like this.

Intuition:
If $f = \sum_i a_i x_i$, i.e., a centered degree-1 function, 
then  $f(x)$ for random $x$ in the hypercube should by tightly
concentrated around zero. 

beg thm
If $f$ is degree at most $d$ then we have

$$ ||f||_q \le \sqrt{q-1}^{d} ||f||_2.  $$ 
end thm
beg pf
Induction and Cauchy-Shwarz
end pf

beg rmk
There is another interpretation of this in terms of the noisy
hypercube.

Noisy hypercube is a Markov Chain. Starting from a vertex for
each coordinate independently you either stay or resample the
value uniformly randomly.

You can think of this as a weighted graph too. 

Or as a linear operator that does smoothing.

You can prove that the smoothed version of $f$ with this noisy
thing has 
$$ ||T_\rho f||_q \le ||f||_p $$ 
for $1\le p\le q\le \infty$
and  $0\le \rho \le \sqrt{\frac{p-1}{q-1}}$.

end rmk

beg rmk
There is an interpretation of this in terms of small-set-expanders.

I think it says that if you think about $T_\rho$ as a weighted
grpah then it is a small-set-expander.
end rmk

beg rmk
There was some kind of fancy chernoff-like bound based on this.
end rmk

