{title}
subset sums
{contents}

{description}
Jacob Foxs gave a nice talk about subset sums today. I summarize
what I remember from it.
{body}

# 1. complete sets

beg defn
A set $S$ is $r$-complete if, for any $r$-coloring of $S$ there
is a monochromatic set of numbers in $S$ summing to all
sufficiently large values.
end defn

beg defn
A set is $\eps$-complete if, for any subset $S'$ of $S$ with size at
least $\eps|S|$ there is a subet of $S'$ summing to all
sufficiently large values.
end defn

beg thm
There are $\eps$-complete sets of size approx $\eps^{-1}\log^2
n$.
end thm

First need key lemma. Theorem follows immediately from lemma.
beg lem
Fix $\eps>0, n\in \N$.
There is a set of $\eps^{-1}\log n$ many integers whose set of
subsets contains an interval of size $n\log n$ and starts at $n/2$ or something.
end lem
beg pf
Here we highlight the general technique that seems to be powering
a lot of their results.

1. Randomly sample numbers with no prime divisors smaller than $(\log n)/2$ (iirc)
2. For the first little while, whenever you add a number it is
   quite likely to double the interval of attainable sums.
3. Then once your interval is rather large and you've drawn a
   bunch of elements you can extend the interval by the size of
   the drawn elements each time.

**TODO: figure out details?**

end pf

Proof of theorem from lemma:
beg pf
Dyadically apply the lemma
end pf

beg thm
There are no $\epsilon$-complete sets of size smaller than
$\log^2 n$
end thm


# 2. avoiding a specific sum

beg thm
We say a coloring of $[n]$ is good if there is no monochromatic
set of integers summing to  $n$.

I ignore log factors in following statement.

You need about $n^{1/3}$ colors to be good.
There exists a good coloring using $n^{1/3}$ colors.
end thm
beg pf

We split our colors up into several types:

1. big elements
2. multiples of primes not dividing $n$
3. everything else, grouped into groups with sums smaller than $n$.

It turns out that after handling 1,2 there is not so much stuff
left for 3, and what's left is pretty small. So this ends up
being a pretty efficient coloring.

end pf

# 3. $r$-complete sets

beg prop
$\set{p^{i}q^{j}}$ is not $2$-complete, but it is $1$-complete.
end prop
beg pf
Here is a 2-coloring that demonstrates the set is not 2-complete. 
Color powers of $p^{i}$ Red. Color everything else Blue.
Then all Blue numbers are multiples of $q$. So both blue and red
and severely limited in the numbers they can achieve.

**TODO1: prove it  is 1-complete**
end pf

beg rmk
As far as I know it is not known whether $\set{p^{i}q^{j}r^{k}}$ is $2$-complete or not.

**TODO2: solve**
end rmk

# 4. subset-sum free set

beg prop
The set $1,2,4,\ldots, 2^{k-1}$ has the property that all of its
subset sums are distinct.
end prop

beg thm
Let $a_1<a_2<\cdots <a_k$ be positive integers such that
all subset sums of $\set{a_i}$ are distinct.
Then $a_k \ge 2^{k}/\sqrt{k}$.
end thm
beg pf

First we give an easy argument to show $a_k \ge 2^{k}/k$.
If $a_k<2^{k}/k$ then all subset sums would be contained in $[2^{k}-1]$.
But there are $2^{k}$ subset sums so they could then not all be
distinct.

To prove $2^{k}/\sqrt{k}$ we use second moment method.
If you take a random sum it is tightly concentrated.

**TODO3: figure this out more**

Fox talked about how they did something fancy isoperimetric
inequality boolean cube to get a better constant.

**TODO4: upper or lower bounds is a kind of fun openq to think about**

end pf

**UPDATE**
The most obvious way to get a subsetsum free set is greedily
forwards: repeatedly pick the largest number that is still
available.
This gives powers of $2$.
Another idea is greedy backwards: start by picking the largest
number, and then go backwards, selecting at each step the largest
number which is still available.

Turns out the greedy backwards approach gives a neat sequence,
and $\approx 0.235\cdot 2^{n-1}$.
This is not SotA. SotA is $.202\cdot 2^{n-1}$ or something.

```python
"""
this is code for erdos distinct sums problem 

OEIS this
[13, 12, 11, 9, 6]                              **** 1 1 2 3
[24, 23, 22, 20, 17, 11]                        **** 1 1 2 3 6
[44, 43, 42, 40, 37, 31, 20]                    **** 1,1,2,3,6,11
[84, 83, 82, 80, 77, 71, 60, 40]                **** 1 1 2 3 6 11 20
[161, 160, 159, 157, 154, 148, 137, 117, 77]    **** 1 1 2 3 6 11 20 40
[309, 308, 307, 305, 302, 296, 285, 265, 225, 148]

"""

from itertools import combinations

def has_distinct_subset_sums(nums, printit=False):
    subset_sums = set()
    for i in range(1 << len(nums)):
        subset_sum = sum(nums[j] for j in range(len(nums)) if (i >> j) & 1)
        if subset_sum in subset_sums:
            return False
        subset_sums.add(subset_sum)
    if printit:
        print(subset_sums)
        print(len(subset_sums))
    return True

n = 24
m = 6
for subset in combinations(list(range(1,n+1)), m):
    if has_distinct_subset_sums(subset):
        print(subset)

def greedy(big):
    X = [big]
    subsetsums = {0, big}
    for i in range(big,1,-1):
        compatible = True
        for s in subsetsums:
            if s+i in subsetsums:
                compatible = False
                break
        if compatible:
            X.append(i)
            Y = [s+i for s in subsetsums]
            for y in Y:
                subsetsums.add(y)
    return X

record = 1
for i in range(1,500):
    score = i / 2**(len(greedy(i))-1)
    if score < record:
        print(greedy(i))
        record = score
        print(round(100*score, 2))

```

