{title}
max-anti-chain vs min-chain-cover
{contents}

{description}
A hint of duality between chains and anti-chains in posets.
{body}
So I think there is some really deep duality between chains and
anti-chains in posets. 

**Green's theorem** says that if you look at how many more
elements you can cover if you are allowed an extra chain, and you
look at that same sequence for anti chains, then these form
conjugate partitions, i.e. their corresponding young diagrams are
flipped versions of one another.

Now, that sounds really deep. For today, we are definitely not
going to prove that. But what we are going to prove is that the
size of the largest anti-chain (which can be interpretted as the
size of the first row in one of the young diagrams I was discussing) is the
same as the minimum number of chains required to cover the poset
(which can be interpreted as the size of the first columns in the
other young diagram). 

Here goes:

beg thm
max anti-chain size = min chain-cover size
end thm
beg pf
We will prove the equality via establishing $\leq, \geq$.
One inequality is immediate: any cover of the poset with chains contains at least one
chain per element in the max size anti-chain.

Now, we want to show that there is some chain-cover which has
exactly one chain per element in a max anti-chain. We do so by induction.

Our inductive hypothesis is that for any poset $P_0$ on $n-1$ elements
which has maximal anti-chain of size $d$ there is a cover of $P$
using $d$ chains. Now we consider a poset $P$ with $n$ elements,
and maximal anti-chain size of $d$. We want to exhibit a chain
cover of $P$ with $d$ chains.

First, we note that if there are any elements that are just
completely incomparable to everything then we just win, because
those certainly are involved in any anti-chain of maximal length.
Assume this is not the case. Take $m$ to be a minimal element,
and $M$ to be a maximal element, in particular a maximum element
among elements which are comparable to (i.e. larger than) $m$.

If $P-\{m,M\}$ has maximal anti-chain of size  $d-1$ then we just win, by computing a chain cover of it with $d-1$ chains and then adding $\{m,M\}$ as the final chain.
So, assume that this is not the case, i.e. that $P-\{m,M\}$ has
an anti-chain $A$ with $d$ elements. 
Now let $P^+=\setof{x\in P}{\exists a\in A st x\ge a},P^- =
\setof{x\in P}{\exists a \in A st x\le a}$ be the stuff below the
anti-chain and the stuff above the anti-chain. Note that $P^-\cap
P^+ = A$ because if we had an element that was below $a_1\in A$
while being above $a_2\in A$ then $a_1,a_2$ would be comparable,
violating their anti-chain-ness!
Furthermore, $P^- \cup P^+ = P$ or we could build a longer
anti-chain out of whatever element is incomparable to every
element of the anti-chain.
$m\in P^-, M\in P^+$ because by construction $m,M\notin A$ which
means that $P^+,P^-$ are strictly smaller than $P$ and we can use
the inductive hypothesis on them. This results in $d$-chain covers of $P^+,P^-$. But of course we can glue these together via the anti-chain elements, yielding a $d$-chain cover of $P$, as desired.

end pf


