{title}
useful bounds
{contents}

{description}
today I spent way too long searching for a bunch of common bounds
that are useful in, e.g., randomized algorithm analysis. 
Here are the bounds I found, a gift to a future myself.
{body}

beg thm
Let $X$ be the number of heads in $n$ coin tosses. Then
$\Pr[X=\floor{\frac{n}{2}+c\sqrt{n}}] =
\frac{1}{\sqrt{n}}e^{-\Theta(c^{2})}.$
end thm

beg pf

$$\binom{n}{\frac{n}{2}+c\sqrt{n}} = \Theta(\frac{1}{\sqrt{n}})
2^{nH(\frac{1}{2}+\frac{c}{\sqrt{n})}}.$$

$$H(\frac{1}{2}+\frac{c}{\sqrt{n}}) \approx
(4(\frac{1}{2}+\frac{c}{\sqrt{n}})(\frac{1}{2}-\frac{c}{\sqrt{n}}))^{\frac{1}{\ln 4}} \approx 1-\frac{4}{\ln 4}\frac{c^{2}}{n}.$$

Combining these bounds we conclude the theorem.

The bounds used here are:

- $(1-x)^{\alpha}\approx 1-\alpha x$ 
- $H(x)\approx (4(x)(1-x))^{\frac{1}{\ln 4}}$

These are pretty darn good for small $x$.


end pf

Here's another "proof" of the fact:

beg pf
$$\int_{x}^{x+1}e^{-t^{2}}dt \approx e^{-x^{2}}.$$
+ central limit theorem
end pf

beg pf
you can also prove these things with just stirlings approx +
some taylor series. 
In particular you will need:

$$\sqrt{1-x} \approx 1-\frac{x}{2}$$

$$\frac{1}{1-\eps}\approx 1+\eps$$

$$(1-\eps)^{\frac{1}{\eps}}\approx \frac{1}{e}$$

$$e^{-x}\approx 1-x$$

again these are good when the parameters $x,\eps$ are small.


end pf

**NOTE**
This is substantially stronger than what you might guess from
inspection of the Chernoff / Hoeffding bounds that you can find
on wikipedia. 
Of course I think those bounds are probably just not quite sharp
enough, but this is kind of concerning. I'm going to ask around
to see if my proofs here are actually legit.

