\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


So what is rep theory?
It's taking a group $G$ and then associating linear maps (also
known as matrices if you are willing to fix a basis) to the group
elements in a "structure-preserving" way.
More specifically, it is a homomorphism
$$\phi: G \to GL(V)$$
This means $\phi(gh) \cdot v = \phi(g)\phi(h) \cdot v.$

IN this blog post I hope to introduce you to some of the
important theorems. But really if you want to learn rep theory
you gotta work some examples yourself.

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
find all the representations of $S_n$ up to isomorphism. 

- For $n=3$.
- For all $n$
</div>

ok so first, some definitions:

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
**$G$-invariant subspace**: subspace fixed by action of $G.$
i.e. $W\subset V$ such that $\phi(g) W = W$ for all $g\in G$.
</div>

begin defin
**irreducible rep**: no proper $G$-invariant subspace
end defin

<div class="rmk envbox">**Remark.**
In this blog post all groups are assumed to be finite, and all
vector spaces are over the complex numbers. Some stuff breaks if
we don't have these assumptions.
</div>

# shur

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Let $\phi: G\to GL(V), \phi': G\to GL(V')$ be irreducible
$G$-representations. Let $T:V\to V'$ be a map that commutes with the
reps, i.e. $T\circ \phi = \phi'\circ T.$
Then $T$ is a scalar.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
$\ker T$ is  $G$-invariant subspace, but not proper subspace
(none exist due to the irreducibility of the representations).
so the map is the zero-map or an isomorphism.

Take an eigenvector $\lambda$ of $T$ : this must exist due to us
working over the complex numbers.
Then we see that $T=\lambda I$.
</div>

# maschke

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
And representation can be decomposed as a direct sum of irreps
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Define a $G$-invariant hermetian form on the space.
Then, if $W$ is $G$ invariant, $W^\perp$ is also $G$-invariant.
Thus, the rep decomposes into blocks as $W\oplus W^\perp$
</div>


# main

character: trace
character inner-product: hermetian thing

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
- num irreps (up to iso) is num conj classes
- irreps are orthonormal
- $\sum d_i^2 = |G|, d_i  | |G|$ where $d_{i}$ is the dimension
    of the $i$-th irrep.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
class functions: constant on conj classes. characters are basis
for class functions.

bunch of complicated stuff

regular rep
</div>

# some random facts that are kind of cool


> can we read the normal subgroups of a group off of its character table?
good question!
one idea is, well normal subgroups are unions of conjugacy
classes, so take a bunch of unions of conjugacy classes.
Lagrange's theorem them (subgroups have order dividing order of
the group). Then you would really have to check if it's closed as
far as I can tell.

ok but here's a better way.

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Normal subgroups appear as kernels of irreps

**EDIT: this is actually false**
Some normal subgroups will appear as kernels of irreps, but in
general there may be many more normal subgroups than can possibly
occur as kernels of irreps.
</div>

First we need a lemma:
<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
For character $\chi_\rho$ of a dimension $d$ irrep $\rho$, $\chi(g)=\chi(e)=d \iff \rho_g = Id.$ 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Say that we have a representation $g\mapsto R_g$ where $g^k=e$
and thus of course $R_g^k = I$. Clearly any eigenvector $v$ for
$R_g$ satisfies $R_g v = \lambda \implies R_g^k v = \lambda^k v =
v \implies \lambda^k=1.$ so $\lambda$ is a  $k$-th root of unity.
The character of a $d$-dimensional irrep must be the sum of $d$
such eigenvalues.

In order for the sum to be $d$ it must be the sum of all $1$'s.
Only $Id$ has all eigenvalues being $1$.
</div>

Now we can get the theorem
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Let $H$ act on $\C$ by the trivial action (doing nothing!). 
Now, consider the induced representation $\rho$ on $G$ from $H$ (look
down to see what this means.)

**the following stuff is kind of false; I have yet to completely
understand why**
We claim that $\ker \rho = H$. We can see this by Mackey's
formula, and the fact that $H$ is normal so conjugation fixes
$H$. Oh and we are also applying the lemma here.

Ok, then by Maschke's theorem, we can write $\rho$ as a direct
sum of irreps. But to be in the kernel of a direct sum you must
be in the kernel of each (non-zero) summand.

Hence $H$ is in the kernel of some non-zero number of the irreps.
</div>


# frobenius

**induction:** build a rep from a rep of a subgroup.
To do this you basically make a bunch of copies of the rep on the
subgroup and move around between them.
**restriction**: build a rep of a subgroup from a rep on the
group. you just take the restriction

 $$Hom(\texttt{Res}_H^G V, W)^H \cong Hom(V, \texttt{Ind}_H^G W)^G$$

And the formula also holds for characters.

Also it is probably equivalent in some sense to Mackey's formula
 $$\chi_{ind}(g) = \frac{1}{|H|}\sum_{x\in G, xgx^{-1}\in H} \chi(xgx^{-1}).$$


> how many MIT students does it take to prove Frobenius Reciprocity? apparently more than 6.

# specht modules

ok we can construct the irreps of $S_n$ by defining 
- young diagram: partition of n arranged into a left justified square diagram
- tableux: put numbers in young diagram
- tabloid: we don't care about numbers order within rows
- polytabloid: linear combo of tabloids

and then apparently polytabloids with the obvious group action of
$S_n$ corresponds to irreps of $S_n.$ crazy!


