\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\{#1\}}
\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\{#1 \mid #2\}}
\newcommand{\im}{\mathrm{im}}

\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}


Finite fields are super great. But for some reason it seems that
many people regard them as completely mysterious except for $\Z
/ p\Z$.

Today. I partially fix that. A little bit.

beg thm
Let $\F_q$ be a finite field with  $q$ elements. Then $q$ must be a
prime power.
end thm
beg pf
Let $p$ be the characterisitc of $\F_q$, i.e. the smallest $p\in
\N$ such that $p\cdot 1 = 1+ \cdots  + 1$  $p$ times is $0$.
Note that the characteristic must be prime (because inverses
exist in a field so $ab=0$ for  $a,b\in \Z$ would imply $a=0$ or
$b=0$.)

Now, consider the action of $\F_p$ on $\F_q.$ We claim that
$\F_q$ is a $\F_p$ vector space. This is clearly true, because
check the axioms yourself.

But then the size of $\F_q$ is $p^{dim \F_q}$, as claimed.
end pf


beg thm
Let $f$ be a degree  $k$ irreducible polynomial over $\F_p$ for
some prime $p$. Then $\F_p[x] / (f)$ is a finite field of size  $p^{k}.$
end thm
beg pf
The only suspect part is the existence of inverses really.
Bezout's theorem / euclidean algorithm says that for any
polynomials $f,g$ there exists $a,b$ such that $af + bg = gcd(f,g)$.
But for irreducible polynomials this is saying there exists $b$
such that $bg \equiv 1 (f)$. As desired.


end pf

beg rmk
Apparently an equivalent characterization can be made by looking
at the roots of $x^{p^{n}}-x = 0$ with some appropriate
definition of addition
end rmk

# todo later:

In fact, a much stronger result holds: the field we defined above
for $p^{n}$ is unique up to isomorphism.

Supposedly the following Lemma is helpful for establishing this:
beg lemma
The multiplicative group of a field is cyclic.
end lemma



