{title}
double cover: k server
{contents}

{description}

{body}
ok, so you might have heard of paging, which is basically where
you havea cache of pages, and you repeatedly get new page, and
you have to deicde which pages to evict whenever you get a page
that is not in your cache.

Today we're going to talk about a generalization of paging,
called $k$-server. In $k$-server you now live in a metric space
and your score is the total distance your servers travel.

The way I like to think of it is you have a bunch of ice-cream
trucks in a city. Over time you get some requests for ice cream.
The trucks are really fast, but gas is really expensive. So you
want to minimize the total distance that your ice-cream trucks
travel to meet all the requests.

Paging is this problem under the discrete metric (i.e. all
non-identical points are distance $1$ from each other).

ok, but what can we say about non-discrete metrics?

Actually we are only going to consider a very special case today:
online on-a-line $k$-server. That is, we consider the metric
space of a line. 

begin clm
There are at most $2$ servers  that are reasonable to move: the
closest server to the right/left of the request.
end clm
begin pf
Imagine you thought it was a good idea to move someone else. Now
when he moves past one of the dudes you were really supposed to
move they swap hats and the dude you really should have moved
goes in place of the other dude, but you are none the wiser.
end pf

ok, now we have $2$ options for what to move instead of having to
consider all $k$ servers that we could move. But how to choose?
The "correct choice" depends on the future sequence of requests.
It certainly seems tricky. So we just don't choose!
**Double Coverage Algorithm**: move both closest servers closer
to the target until one hits it.

begin thm
Double coverage is $k$ competitive.
end thm

We use the following potential function:
$$\phi = k\cdot M + \sum_{ij}d(s_i,s_j)$$
where $M$ denotes the min-cost matching between our servers $s_i$
and OPT's servers $o_i$. 

Imagine stuff happening with OPT moving first and then us moving
for each request.

begin clm
Whenever opt moves by $d$ potential increases by at most $kd$.
end clm
begin pf
This is immediate.
end pf

begin lem
Whenever double coverage moves by $d$ potential decreases by at
least $d$.
end lem
begin pf 
If the request is to the right/left of *all* servers: matching
cost decreases by $d$ because we are moving on to the opt server,
and the $\sum d(s_i,s_j)$ thing increases by $(k-1)d$. Overall
potential decreases by $d$.

If the request is in the middle of stuff then matching cost
doesn't increase, and most of the $\sum d(s_i,s_j)$ changes
cancel, just the two dudes that we are moving get closer, by
$2d$.
end pf

begin thm 
Double coverage is $k$-competitive.
end thm
begin pf
opt total dist $-$ our total dist $*1/k$ is $\phi$. But $\phi$
never goes crazy or anything so this is fine.
end pf



