{title}
fpt part 7
{contents}

{description}
some more brief notes about treewidth
{body}

A nice way to think about the "separation lemma" that is used in
the treewidth approximation FPT scheme (credit to Tomas for
pointint this out):

beg clm
Suppose you choose any set of $R$ red vertices.
Then there should be a bag of the tree-decomposition that you can
take such that there at most $R/2$ red vertices in all the
connected components left after the removal of that bag.
end clm
beg pf
Direct the edges in the tree from "bag with fewer red vertices"
to "bag with more red vertices" (arbitrarily break ties).

Then find a sink bag. This sink bag is the bag you want.
end pf

beg rmk
Something I was confused about in the tree decomposition
algorithm:

Once we pick the set that we are going to separate and then turn
into a bag we **itterate over all partitions of that set into
three parts** and
run min-cut between each possible tripple of ways the set could
get split.

By the lemma above there has to be a good way (or else we have a
proof of large treewidth).
We take that good partition.

Then let's call the partition $S\setminus B, (S\cap (A\cap B)) \cup X,  S\setminus A$.

To recurse we then recurse on $S\setminus B, (S\cap (A\cap B)) \cup X$
and $S\setminus A, (S\cap (A\cap B)) \cup X$.
The idea is, $B$ interfaces only with $S\setminus B, (S\cap (A\cap B)) \cup X$, and similar for $A$.
So this is what we want.

end rmk

# bidimensionality

win/win framework.

Powerful theorem:
large tree width implies you must have a large grid as a minor.

beg thm
Let $G$ be a planar graph with treewidth $t$. 
Then $G$ contains an $\Omega(t)\times \Omega(t)$ grid as a minor!
end thm

Sometimes *minor* is a bit annoying to work with.
Relation notion: 
"graph achievable by edge contractions."

beg thm
Let $G$ be a planar graph with treewidth $t$. 
Then there is a sequence of edge contractions on $G$ that results
in "$\Gamma_t$", which is a grid, and then you triangulate it,
and then you have one corner vertex that is connected to all the
boundary vertices.
end thm


# a very simple example of using treewidth
beg ex
3-coloring is FPT when parameterized by treewidth.
Run time is $O(3^{k}\cdot k\cdot n)$.
end ex
beg pf

We use the "add edge bag" framework.

Our DP is as follows: 
For each node $t$ in the tree decomposition and each 3-coloring
$f: X_t\to [3]$ of the bag at  $t$ let
$D[t, f]$ denote "is there an extension of $f$ to $f':G_t\to [3]$
that is a valid 3-coloring of $G_t$?"

Now we recurse stuff as follows:

- leaf bags: let $f: \varnothing  \to [3]$ is the "empty function"
    (color zero vertices). This is our only option for a coloring.
    We say $D[t, f] = \top$. (yes I have started using $\bot,
    \top$ for T/F because latex has pretty good support for them
    and because $\bot$ kinda looks like $\perp$, which is my
    favorite binary relation).
- add vertex bags: at this point the vertex is isolated, so its
    fine as long as the restriction of $f$ to not color this
    vertex is fine
- add edge bags: as long as you don't add an edge between two
    vertices with the same color you're chilling
- forget vertex bags: try all the colors for the vertex that
    you're forgetting. if any of them work then you're good.
- join bags: take the intersection of the colorings for both
    childs.

end pf

