{title}
FPT part 4
{contents}

{description}
Randomization in FPT
{body}

Color coding has recently become my favorite technique in graph theory!
This blog post doesn't really do it justice. But it's at least
some notes.

beg thm
Feedback vertex set (find a set of $k$ vertices whose deletion
renders your multigraph acyclic) is in FPT.
end thm
beg pf
Reduction rules:

1. Delete vertices involved in loops
2. Reduce multi-edges to be at most 2-multiplicity
3. Delete connected components which are trees
4. If you have a degree-2 vertex you can "contract": remove the
   vertex and join its neighbors. This is safe because it doesn't
   affect the topology of your graph.

In particular these reduction rules should guarantee that our
graph has min-degree $3$ after applying the reductions.

Now I think we have the following property: 
Let $X$ be a set of $k$ vertices whose removal renders the graph
acyclic. Then $1/2$ of the edges in $G$ have an endpoint in $X$.

Proof: 
I didn't fully follow the proof. 
I think the gist is that once you remove $X$ you gotta have a
forest which has very few edges. And the min-degree condition
is somehow just really good.

FPT algo:
So based on the key lemma we get the following FPT algo for this
problem

```python
for 4^k itterations:
  while graph not acyclic:
    while there is a reduction rule you can apply:
      apply that reduction rule
    Now randomly guess an edge and an endpoint of that edge to add to your feedback vertex set; succeed with probability 1/4
```

This should work with constant PR.

end pf

beg thm
Longest Path in FPT
end thm
beg pf
The cannonical example of color coding!
Color, hope its rainbow, and then DP.

There's also a fancier **divide and color** algorithm.
The idea is you try to partition the vertex set.
But you try a bunch of different partitions. 
You have really high branching at low depth in the recursion tree
and then really low branching at high depth.
Somehow this improves the constant of the standard color coding
algo a tiny bit.
end pf

beg thm
Subgraph isomorphism in graphs of bounded degree.
end thm
beg pf
Color edges, hope that your stuff shows up as connected
components. Bounded degree condition makes it relatively likely
that you get separated out.

It's slightly more complicated if your pattern graph isn't
connected. Then you do matching at the end.
end pf

beg lem
If you randomly color a $k$-edge graph with $q=100\sqrt{k}$ colors
then with probability at least  $2^{-\sqrt{k}}$ you get a proper
coloring
end lem
beg pf
Let $v_1,v_2,v_3,\ldots,$ be vertices that arise from the
following process:

> repeatedly delete a min-degree vertex

They argue that $v_i \le O(\sqrt{k})$. Seems pretty believable.

An inequality that comes up fairly often is $1-x \le e^{-x}$.
Here they use another interesting one though:
if $x\in(0,1/2)$ then  $1-x \ge 2^{-2x}$. Neat.

They think of the random coloring as happening one vertex at a
time. Then, they probability of the $i$-th vertex getting a good
color is at least 
$$1-d_i / q \ge 2^{-2d_i/q}$$
using our bound on $d_i$.

Now, the total probability of success is at least:

$$2^{-2(1/q) \sum d_i} = 2^{-\sqrt{k}}.$$

It was pointed out that this is basically just a fancy way of
saying that cliques maximize chromatic number per a given number
of edges. But its a lot more quantitative than just saying that.

end pf

beg rmk
This is cool. $2^{o(k)}$ is rare for FPT algos.
end rmk

beg thm
$d$-clustering chromatic coloring / color and conquer. 

We say that a graph is a $d$-cluster graph if it consists of $d$
connected components, each of which is a clique.
Problem: is there a set of $k$ edges you can modify (add or
delete) to make input graph be a $d$-cluster graph.
end thm
beg pf

Assume yes instance. 
Let $A$ be the set of edges we need to modify.
So we apply the lemma in hopes that $A$ is properly colored. 

Assume that we have a coloring of $G$ that is a proper coloring of a solution $A$. 
The key observation is that $A$ isn't allowed to change any
connections between vertices of the same color class. Hence, the
induced subgraph on each color-class must already be
$\ell$-cluster graphs.

So now we have at most $qd$ parts. And we try all $d^{qd}$ ways
of combining these into $d$ clusters. 

After guessing the combo we just count how many edges are missing
within each of the clusters and how many bad edges go between
clusters. If deleting them is within budget we do it and win.
Else we keep going.


end pf

# Derandomization

beg rmk
We will define some objects:

- splitters 
- universal sets
- perfect hash families

With all of them it basically turns out that they have pretty
minimal overhead compared to their randomized version, usually a
log factor.
end rmk

beg def
**SPLITTER**

Let $k\le \ell$. You can define splitters for  $k>\ell$ as well
but I don't think it'll be necessary for us. An
$(n,k,\ell)$-splitter is a collection $\mathcal{F}$ of colorings $f: [n]\to
[\ell]$, with the property that for any $k$-element subset $S$ of
$[n]$ there is some coloring $f\in\mathcal{F}$ that is injective
onto $S$, i.e., colors each element of $S$ a different color.
end def

beg thm
For any $n,k \ge 1$ one can construct an $(n,k,k^2)$-splitter of
size $k^{O(1)}\log n$ in time $k^{O(1)}n\log n$.
end thm
beg rmk
This is the main object we need. Unfortunately the dependancy
chain for constructing it seems rather long.

Perfect Hash Families were introduced by Alon Yuster Zwick in
their seminal Color-Coding paper. 
But they use some result about "bounded probability spaces".

In any case, its obvious by a probabilistic argument that these
objects exist, and while its impressive that they can be computed
efficiently, its probably believable.
end rmk

beg def
An $(n,k,k)$-splitter is called an $(n,k)$-perfect hash family.
end def

beg thm
For any $n,k \ge 1$ one can construct an $(n,k)$-perfect hash
family of size $e^{k+O(\log^2 k)}\log n$ in time $e^{k+O(\log^2 k)} n\log n$.
end thm

beg rmk
The construction of this object is by composing a
$(k^2,k,k)$-splitter (which is apparently easier to construct
than an $(n,k)$-perfect hash family)
and an $(n,k,k^2)$-splitter.

My attempt to construct a $(k^2,k)$-perfect hash family:
there are only $\binom{k^2}{k}\le k^{k}$ $k$-element subsets of
$[k^{2}]$. So, we could itterate over these sets $S$ and for each
of these define a coloring for the sole purpose of having the
coloring be rainbow on $S$. It seems they maybe have slightly
better quantitative bounds, but this seems like the right vibe.
end rmk

beg def
An $(n,k)$-universal set is a family $U$ of subsets of $[n]$ such
that for any $S\in \binom{[n]}{k}$ the family $\{A\cap S: A\in
U\}$ contains all subsets of $S$.
end def

beg thm
One can construct an $(n,k)$-universal set of size $2^{k+O(\log^2
k)}\log n$ in time $2^{k+O(\log^2 k)}n\log n$.
end thm
beg rmk
How to do this: 
explicit construction of a $(k^2,k)$-universal set and compose it
with an $(n,k,k^2)$-splitter.
end rmk

beg def
A family of functions $f: [n]\to [q]$ is called a  $k$-wise
independent sample space if, for every $x\in [n]^{k}$ with
distinct components and every $y\in [q]^{k}$ we have

$$\Pr_f [f(x_1)=y_1 \land f(x_2)=y_2 \land \cdots]$$

end def

beg thm
There exists a $k$-wise independent sample space of size
$O(n^{k})$ and it can be constructed in linear time in its output
size.
end thm

## examples of derandomization

In many cases given the above objects the derandomization is
trivial.

beg prop
Deterministic Longest Path FPT algo.
end prop
beg pf
For de-randomizing the vanilla version:
Instead of random coloring use a perfect hash family.

For de-randomizing the fancy tree version:
instead of randomly partitioning the vertex set use a universal
set.
end pf

beg thm
Now we de-randomize the chromatic coding algorithm for
$d$-clustering. 
end thm
beg pf
Here we need to define another one of these
pseudo-random objects a "coloring family".

The idea is we just construct a small one and then we boost it
with the $(n,k,k^2)$-splitter that we always use to boost small
things.

Here's the lemma spelled out in a bit more detail:

Take a 2-wise independent sample space of functions $f:[k^2]\to [\sqrt{k}]$.
If you randomly sample a function $f$ from the 2-wise independent sample space and use 
$f$ to color the at-most $k^2$ vertices of a $k$-edge graph, then
in expectation $\sqrt{k}$ of the edges will be monochromatic.
Then we use alterations to fix those edges.
Alterations basically means that we itterate over all possible
things that these vertices could be and give them unique colors.

end pf

