{title}
fpt part 8
{contents}

{description}
Matroids.
{body}

LA = linear algebra
GT = graph theory

Matroid theory = LA + GT.

beg defn
A matroid is a set of "edges" $U$ and "independent sets"
$F\subset\mathcal{P}(U)$ (not in the graph theory sense in the LA
sense) which I shall call **isets** with the following
properties:

1. empty set is an iset.
2. subset of an iset is an iset. (hereditary property)
3. If you have two isets with distinct sizes, then there is an
   element of the larger iset that you can add to the smaller
   iset and still get an iset. (exchange property)

**Basis: inclusion-wise maximal set of edges forming an iset** 
**Circuit: inclusion-wise minimal set of edges forming not
forming an iset**.
**Rank: size of bases.**

end defn

beg ex
Uniform matroid: 
Fix $r$.
Every set of size at most $r$ is an iset.
end ex

beg ex
edges = set of vectors.
isets = linearly independent sets of vectors

this is a matroid.
end ex

beg defn
Representation: 

Some way of associating a matrix with a matroid.

vandermonde matrix = rep of uniform matroid

end defn

beg ex
graphical matroids

matroid edges: edges in the graph
isets: acyclic subgraphs.

It's not obvious that this is a matroid. 
Hereditary property is obvious but not exchange.
I thought the proof was
kind of clever. 
The proof is as follows.

Let $A,B \subseteq E(G)$ be isets with $|A|< |B|$.
Here's how to run an exchange.
$B$ can't have more edges than $A$ in any of the connected
components of $A$. Hence $B$ has an edge going between two
connected components of $A$. This is a safe edge to exchange.

end ex

beg ex
representation of graphical matroids:

you direct the edges somehow and then make a $V\times E$ matrix
with a $\pm 1$ in entry  $v,e$ if $e$ goes into / out of $v$.

end ex

