{title}
2-server on a circle
{contents}

{description}
In the k-server problem you have k "servers" located in some
topological space. You recieve a series of "requests", which are
points in the topological space. You must respond to the request
by moving some subset of your servers so that at least one server
goes to the request. We will consider this problem in a metric
space. You objective is to minimize the total distance travelled
by all your servers. More precisely, our objective is to create a
strategy that achieves bounded competitive ratio. We consider
this problem with k=2 and set on a circle, where distance is
measured along the circle.
{body}

In the k-server problem you have k "servers" located in some
topological space. You recieve a series of "requests", which are
points in the topological space. You must respond to the request
by moving some subset of your servers so that at least one server
goes to the request. We will consider this problem in a metric
space. You objective is to minimize the total distance travelled
by all your servers. More precisely, our objective is to create a
strategy that achieves bounded competitive ratio. We consider
this problem with k=2 and set on a circle, where distance is
measured along the circle.

A lot of obvious strategies that you might try fail to have
bounded competitive ratio:

- "double cover" (move both servers closer to the request until
    one reaches it). This is bad: imagine the requests alternated
    between poles of the circle, and the servers started at
    anti-poles.
- "decayed double cover" (move closer server distance $d$ to the
    request, and the other server distance $\frac{d}{2}$ towards
    the request). Imagine there is a series of requests near one
    of the servers, and the other server is on the opposite side
    of the circle. We can make it oscilate and never reach
- "just move the closest one". The same example as above shows
    that this is bad.


At this point one might despair of finding any strategy that
achieves bounded competitive ratio. 
But there is this other problem called ski-rental. 
The idea there is "rent skis until you've payed the cost of skis
and then buy skis."
This is two competitive, because an adversary always breaks your
legs after you buy skis.

Anyways, what does that have to do with this problem?

I propose the following strategy

beg prop
Name the servers server $1$ and server  $2$.
Let $w_i$ denote the distance travelled so far by server  $i$ and
let $d_i$ denote the distance from server $i$ to the request.

Then, we send whichever server minimizes $d_i + w_i$ to cover the
request.
end prop

**TODO**: 
- show that this has bounded competitive ratio
- or that it does not


