{title}
min-cost circulation
{contents}

{description}
I feel like I can never remember what min-cost circulation (MCC)
is, or what the basic facts about it are. So here is a short blog
post where I remind myself of what MCC is.
{body}

I feel like I can never remember what min-cost circulation (MCC)
is, or what the basic facts about it are. So here is a short blog
post where I remind myself of what MCC is.

[Based on some scribed notes for Karger's Advanced Algorithms course](https://courses.csail.mit.edu/6.854/06/scribe/s12-minCostFlowAlg.pdf)

beg defn
Let $G$ be a graph, where each edge $e$ has a capacity $u(e)\ge
0$ and a cost $c(e)\in \R$.
Identify source and sink vertices $s,t$ in $G$.

A min-cost max-flow is a flow on $G$ of minimum cost. 
That is, it is an assignment of values $f(e) \in [0, u(e)]$
subject to "conservation of flow" at all but the source and sink
vertices, i.e., so that  $\sum_{u\to v}f(u\to v) - \sum_{w\to u}
f(w\to u) = 0$ for all vertices $u\notin \set{s,t}$, 
which minimizes
$$\sum_e f(e) c(e).$$
end defn

beg rmk
flow can be decomposed into paths and cycles. 
end rmk

beg defn
**Min-cost circulation**: again you have a capacitated graph with
edge costs. The only difference is that there is no source /
sink.
The goal is to choose a flow, called a circulation in this
context that of course satisfies the capacities and conservation
of flow, which makes the cost of the flow minimized.
end defn

beg thm
Algorithms for min-cost max-flow and algorithms for min-cost circulation are easily interchangable.
end thm
beg pf

Given a min-cost circulation instance you can add a dummy source
and sink vertex not connected to anything to obtain a min-cost max-flow instance. 

Here are two ways to turn a min-cost max-flow instance into a
min-cost circulation instance: 

1. Add an edge $t\to s$ with  $\infty$ capacity and  $-\infty$
   cost.
2. Find an arbitrary $s,t$ max-flow, and then find a min-cost
   circulation in the residual graph.

end pf

beg thm
A circulation is a minimum-cost circulation iff the residual
graph has no negative cycles. 
end thm
beg pf
If residual graph has negative cycle you can augment to obtain
lower cost. 

If we have a sub-optimal circulation, then consider the
difference between our sub-optimal circulation and an optimal
circulation. It is a circulation with a negative-weight cycle.
end pf

So you could do Bellman Ford.


beg thm 
Some super crazy algorithm can solve MCC in $O(m^{1+o(1)})$ ish.
end thm

beg def
Price functions are maybe good for more elementary algorithms for
computing the min-cost circulation.

A **feasible price** function is $p: V\to \R$ with 

- $p(s) = 0$,
- For each edge $v\to w$ we have $p(w) \ge p(v)+c(v\to w)$

**Reduced cost**: $c(v\to w) +p(v)-p(w)$.
It's like you pay $p(v)$ dollars to pick up the item, and earn
$p(w)$ for delivering it, and pay  $c(v\to w)$ for travelling.
If reduced cost is negative there is economic incentive to move
flow around. 

So, a price function is feasible for a residual graph if no
residual edge has negative reduced cost. 

**Observation:** the min-cost circulation in the graph of reduced
costs is the same as in the actual graph: because when you add
the reduced costs in a cycle it is the same as if you add the
real costs in a cycle.

end def

beg thm 
Circulation is optimal iff feasible price function in residual
graph.
end thm
beg pf
If feasible price function then no negative weights, and in
particular no negative cost cycles in residual graph. Discussed
earlier this is sufficient condition. 

If circulation is minimum cost then we assign prices as follows:
add a vertex $s$ with cost  $0$ edges to all other vertices. 
Compute the prices as the distance from $s$. 
This graph has no negative cost cycles due to being optimal so
the distances will all be finite.
It is clear that distances satisfy the feasibility condition.

end pf