{title}
More MM notes
{contents}
triangle detection to triangle finding
using triangle detection to do BMM
{description}

{body}

# triangle detection to triangle finding
Randomly split vertices in half. Run detection on both halves. 
Have to try $O(1)$ times in expectation. 
The run time would be, in expectation, 
$$\sum T(n/2^{i})\le T(n) 2\sum (1-\eps)^{i}\le T(n)2\eps^{-1}.$$

This can be de-randomized as follows: 
split the set into $6$ equal sized parts. There must be some set
of $3$ of them that contains a triangle. Every set of $3$ of them
has size $n/2.$


# using triangle detection to do BMM

BMM is defined as 
$$(AB)[i,j] = \bigvee_k (A[i,k]\land B[k,j]).$$

beg rmk
You can do BMM via fast MM techniques in $n^{\omega}$ time.
end rmk

beg thm
You can also do BMM via triangle-detection.
This is asymptotically slower, but kind of nicer because it
doesn't rely on crazy impractical tensor-decomposition stuff with
ridiculous constant factors. 
More precisely, 
if there is a $D(n)$ time algorithm for triangle detection then
there is an $n^{2}D(n^{1/3})$ time algorithm for BMM.
Using BMM to do triangle detection is trivial. 
Thus, BMM and triangle detection are "sub-cubic equivalent".
end thm
beg pf
Make a tri-partite graph $X,Y,Z$.
Put all the edges between $X,Z$. 
Put edges between $i\in X,j\in Y$ if $A[i,j]=1$
and edges between  $j\in Y, k\in Z$ if  $B[j,k]=1$.

Split each of $X,Y,Z$ into parts of size $t$.
For each tripple of little parts eat all the triangles in it. 

Run time: 
$$t^3 D(n/t) + n^{2} D(n/t).$$
Set $t=n^{2/3}$.
end pf