{title}
Pascal's Wager
{contents}

{description}
distracted philisophical agonizings
{body}

Just finished editing an essay for my philosophy class. 
As several of the dilligent readers of my blog have expressed
interest in this paper I am posting it here. 

Before the paper, some remarks are in order:

beg rmk
I'm not fully satisfied with how the paper turned out. To some
extent this may be the fault of me making a bad argument. But
I think there is also some element of this which is an
intrinsic unavoidable property of philosophy: 
the "right answers", assuming such objects even exist, are
fairly slippery and hard to pin down.

There's some kind of balance. 
I think a skeptical / non-commital approach to philosophy is **wrong**.
We *do* know some things, we *do* have some ethical obligations, and so on.
Just not asking the questions is **wrong**, as is avoiding
logical inevitabilities that make us uncomfortable. 

The fact that there are so many dissenting voices in philosophy
might make the following approach (which is **bad**)
attractive:

- Find some arguments for whatever life style and opinions I
    currently hold, and use those arguments to justify my way of
    life.

Seems like writing some philisophical appologies is probably a
good idea to avoid the "not thinking about things" trap. 

Anyways, what's the point?

I think the important bottom-line principles are:

- If you know something is wrong don't do it.
- If you're unsure whether something is right or wrong, you
    should try to figure out.
- Imorallity in the past is no justification for future
    immorality. And also only worth obsessing about to the point
    to which it impacts the future.

end rmk

Anyways here's some more words:

@importpdf: images/pascal.pdf

