{title}
insert content here
{contents}

{description}
this blog post is not about contention resolution
{body}

> What does it mean to be content?

I read some random blog post about this, now writing some
thoughts about it. 

Accept and appreciate internal and external states. 

Accepting and appreciating external state could include looking
at some trees or listening to a nice song. or doing mostly
anything intentionally.

Accepting internal state seems challenging.
this doesn't mean striving for a constant sense of joy or even
serenity.
Instead it seems to be something like not being stressed about
what emotions currently are present in your mind

I'm not sure what I think about this. 
I kind of like the idea that you can and should hack your
emotions. but will also admit that you can't 100% accomplish
emotion hacking. 

I like the idea
"Regardless of how I feel, I can choose to act as directed by higher values."

But I guess its important to understand what your higher values
are. 
(recall higher values, from a previous blog post)

- treat myself and others well
- create and share cool ideas
- appreciate stuff excitedly

Appreciating internal and external states: 

- rm contingencies for contentment

"I'll be content once I grow up"
seems like there's no real reason to say time now is less
valuable then time when you're older 

contingencies are certainly quite dangerous and good to rm

> Q: should you eat candies?

1. no: this results in you being less healthy and feeling worse
   overall
2. yes: its a form of appreciating art and beauty in life. 

> A: It is not important to eat candy, and in general you should
be somewhat discriminating in this regards and especially in
regards to gluttony. but the appreciating art method is good. 
In fact this philosophy can be pretty generally extended to lots
of frivolous comfort-driven parts of life. Comfort and pleasure
aren't intrinsically good or evil really. they're not really
worth seeking too much but when you can create small beautiful
things that is really good. and its definitely not too healthy to
over-analyze whether your choices in this regards are optimal. 

> Q: what about technology?
> A: ws10dczq. get buffer. 

> Q: which of the following methods is supported by the theory of contentment? 

1. whenever you hear about something that sounds kinda fun, e.g.,
   a friend invites you to do something, default accept because
   weighing the opportunity cost of doing stuff is kind of
   stressfull and if you try to optimize things too much it
   drains the fun away
2. default reject things, because you are content with the way
   things are already don't need more things

> A: serendipity can be awesome
don't reject out of nebulous fear I'm definitely have been
leaning a bit towards (2) lately, and could correct to (1). but
not terribly off course. Anyways, definitely reject if you
actually have something specific goal that you're going for.

this reminds me as many things do that its really fun to have
arbitrary very specific goals
todo: make some
note: you gotta do it right or its too exhausting

like one mega-goal per week and per day and per quarter seems
pretty reasonable

that thought, to be continued

oh unrelated art is good, as is adventure. 

and here is some chinese vocabulary that I made up, sorry they
are not google  translatable would be my guess:

- 放气
- 笑果
- 盐以律己，宽以待人

ok that's enouguh! indeed it is indeed enough.

so in summary, accept all moments, the bad ones and the good
ones, plan (short-term) some interesting ones. carp diem!


