{title}
A Moral Dilemma: Surgery
{contents}

{description}
Third philosophy essay, this time about a moral dilemma.
{body}

THE PHILOSOPHY ESSAY IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE PHILOSOPHY OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE PHILOSOPHY.

----

> Here are two popular and plausible moral claims: (1) In Thomson's Bystander case,
it's permissible to pull the lever, redirect the runaway trolley, and kill one person in order
to save five; (2) in Foot/Thomson's Surgery case, it's not permissible to perform a
surgery that kills one person in order to save five. Is there any good way of explaining
why it's permissible to pull the lever but impermissible to do the surgery? (If you think
there's no good way of accommodating both judgments, you should indicate which of
the two judgments ought to be given up.)

# Introduction

"Bystander" and "Surgery" are two famous moral
dilemmas where if the agent refuses to act five people die, and
if the agent acts then one person dies. Many people
believe that in Surgery it is impermissible to act and cause the
death of one to save five, whereas in Bystander is is permissible
to act, causing the death of one in order to save five. 
However, it is notoriously difficult to explain what difference
between the two cases permits action in Bystander while
prohibiting action in Surgery.

In [1] Foot considers Surgery and several similar moral dilemmas.
Foot claims that positive duties -- responsibilities to intervene
on someone's behalf -- are generally weaker than negative duties
-- responsibilities to not intervene  on someone's behalf. Foot's
analysis of Surgery is that the surgeon shouldn't act because
acting entails violating a negative right in order to fulfill
five positive duties.

In this paper I argue the opposite: it *is permissible* for the
surgeon to kill one to save five. 
I will start by arguing that negative duties are not actually
stronger than positive duties: negative duties merely seem
stronger because of implicit confounding factors that render the
comparison between the negative duty and corresponding positive
duty unfair (i.e., not "all things equal").
After removing these general confounding factors associated with
negative duties I will modify several morally irrelevant but
psychologically confusing details to clarify why it is right to
kill one to save five. 

# Exegesis

To start I define Surgery and discuss Foot's analysis of Surgery.

> In **Surgery** Nathan is a highly skilled surgeon with five patients
each dying from various organ failures. A healthy individual
Anthony walks into the waiting room. Nathan realizes that he could kill Anthony and
distribute Anthony's organs to the five patients to save them. \
> *Should Nathan harvest Anthony's organs to save five patients?*

Many people, including Foot, believe that it is morally
impermissible for Nathan to harvest Anthony's organs. Foot supports
her intuition by discussing the distinction between
positive and negative duties. 

> A **positive duty** (**PD**) is an obligation to interfere in a
situation for someone's benefit. \
> A **negative duty** (**ND**) is an obligation to not interfere in a
situation to someone's detriment. 

For example, if we see a child drowning in a pond we have a PD to
save them. If we see a child standing next to a pond we have a ND
to refrain from shoving them into the pond.

Roughly speaking Foot believes that, ceteris paribus, NDs are
more than five times stronger than PDs. More formally, I think
Foot would support the following "**PDND Principle**":

> Consider two cases:\
> (1) If Claire performs interference $\phi_1$ in case 1 it will
> prevent bad event $E$ from befalling five (or fewer) agents.\
> (2) If Claire performs interference $\phi_2$ in case 2 then a
> bad event $E'$, similar to case 1's  bad event $E$, will happen to a single agent.\
> The PDND Principle states that Claire's PD to $\phi_1$ in case 1
> is less compelling than her ND to refrain from $\phi_2$ing in case 2. 
> In other words, if forced to choose either to do both
> $\phi_1,\phi_2$ or to do neither of $\phi_1,\phi_2$, the
> morally correct decision is to do neither of $\phi_1,\phi_2$.

Now I describe how I think Foot would use this principle to
explain the difference between the aforementioned cases
concerning a child and a pond. The bad event in both cases is the
child's death, and the affected agent is the same in both cases.
Pushing a child into the pond is worse than neglecting to save a
drowning child, because Claire has a ND to not harm the child and
merely a PD to save the child. 

The PDND Principle crucially requires comparing similarly-bad
events in cases 1 and 2. To see why, consider the following case:

> Claire notices a child drowning in a pool. For some strange
> reason people are arrayed around the pool in
> a temporary drug-induced sleep. In particular, in order to go
> into the pool and save the child Claire must step on someone 
> causing them mild injury. \
> Of course Claire has a ND to refrain from harming these people.
> But it is clearly overwhelmed by the PD to save the drowning
> child. Thus, it does not make sense to apply the PDND
> Principle in cases where the bad events differ.

Foot explains Surgery as follows:

> Nathan has a PD to save the five patients, but a
ND to not kill Anthony. Nathan's ND is stronger than his PD, so
he shouldn't kill Anthony.

Foot does not consider Bystander, but it is instructive to apply
her analysis to Bystander. Recall the case:

> In **Bystander** Nathan stands next to a lever controlling the
> path of an out-of-control train. If Nathan does nothing, five
> people on the track ahead will die. If Nathan pulls the lever
> the train will be diverted to kill Anthony, who is on the other
> track. \
> *Should Nathan pull the lever?*

Just like in Surgery, Nathan in Bystander has a PD to save the
five people the train is headed towards, and a ND to not kill
Anthony by directing a train to run over him. Then, assuming the
PDND Principle we conclude that Nathan must refrain from pulling
the lever. 
This conclusion seems rather unintuitive: most people feel that
the decision to pull the lever is obvious. I think this intuition
is exactly right, and that in Surgery it is also right to kill
one to save five. 

In the next section I will argue that the PD/ND distinction is
illusory and only appears plausible because of traits implicitly
associated with NDs. Then I will modify morally irrelevant
details of Surgery to promote correct moral intuition about the
case.

# Analysis

### Specifying Morally Relevant Details

A crucial assumption in the PDND Principle is that we compare
comparably-bad events. I now present four common implicit
differences between events that we have a ND not to cause and
events that we have a PD to prevent. Once these are explicitly
removed I believe the distinction between PDs and NDs evaporates.

##### I. Uncertainty
A large difference between events we should not cause and events
we should prevent is **uncertainty** about the future. For
instance, consider the difference between the following two
cases:

(1) Alice poisons her cat.
(2) Alice neglects to feed her cat. 

Intuitively, (1) is morally worse than (2). But are the caused and
not-prevented events in question really the same? Notice that in
(2) Alice's neglect *might* lead to her cat's death. But the cat
might also find other food; its death is not certain. In
contrast, in (1) it is nearly certain that the poison will kill
the cat. Removing the element of uncertainty seems to eliminate
the difference between (1) and (2): poison and starvation are
merely two different tools to the same end. 

With regards to Surgeon, we may be implicitly biased to believe
that the Surgeon can't be certain or even confident in succeeding
in such a difficult operation. 
Indeed, if Nathan were very uncertain that he could successfully
perform the organ transplants leading to the five patient's full
recoveries then it would clearly be wrong for him to kill Anthony. 
However, the assumption in Surgery is that this uncertainty does
not exist: Nathan is a perfect surgeon and knows he could
successfully perform the procedure. 

##### II. Self-Fulfilling Prophecy
The issue of uncertainty is closely related to the issue of
**self-fulfilling prophecies**.
One of the characteristics of Surgeon which makes Surgeon feel
unrealistic is the dichotomy: the only options available to
Nathan are killing Anthony or letting the five patient's die. 
If Nathan accepts this dichotomy and focuses all his energy on
killing Anthony then he may fail to notice alternative solutions. 
My point is not that one should always procrastinate important
decisions: the price of delaying might be quite large. 
Rather, my point is that it is bad to prematurely resign oneself
to a dichotomy between two actions. 

To remove this from the calculation we can imagine that in
Surgery the patient's have very short amount of time left to live
and Nathan, as an experienced surgeon, is quite confident that no
alternative solution will be manifest. We may even go as far as
to assume that Anthony is a relatively rare individual in that he
happens to have organs that would be compatible with all of the
dying patients. Thus, all **alternative** courses of action are
ruled out. 

##### III. Side-Effects
A third reason why negative duties are often more pressing than
positive duties is that even well-intentioned actions can have
adverse unintended **side-effects**. This is also related to the
issue of uncertainty because it is very challenging to predict
what these side-effects will be.

For a simple example, imagine Nathan really did kill Anthony, and
people found out. This could plausibly cause some degree of loss
of trust in hospitals, which could lead to people avoiding
hospitals resulting in injuries or even death. 
To mitigate this possibility in Surgeon we stipulate that there
will be no side-effects. In particular, no one will ever learn
what Nathan did.

One other important side-effect to consider is the effect of the
action on Nathan. 
For instance, imagine that Nathan's psychology was such that if
he actively killed Anthony he would later commit suicide, or that
he would become a serial killer. 
If Nathan killing Anthony could have drastic side-effects such as
these then it seems much more likely that killing Anthony would be
wrong. Thus, an assumption in my definition of Surgery is that
there are no such extreme side-effects due to Nathan's
psychology. 

##### IV. Blame

A fourth factor that can confuse our sense of responsibility is
**blame**. For instance, it could plausibly make a moral
difference to the case if the patient's had somehow brought their
maladies upon themselves, e.g., by taking some drug or not caring
for their health appropriately. 
The simplest way to resolve this concern is to slightly augment the
case to make it clear that the patients do not deserve their
sickness. For instance, we can imagine that the patients were
poisoned by an insane murderer, resulting in their organ failures. 

### Modifying Morally Irrelevant Details

Thus far I have specified four *morally relevant* details in
Surgery that are necessary for the morality of the case to not be
ambiguous. Now I will modify several *morally irrelevant* details
of the case to help clarify what the right action should be.

##### I. Gruesome
Surgery is overly gruesome. We have already disallowed the
gruesome nature of the surgery from having extreme side-effects
on Nathan's psychology, so we are free to modify the case to be
less gruesome. At the same time, we can remove the condition that
Nathan is a surgeon. We might be more inclined to think that a
surgeon has special responsibilities not to harm their patients
compared with a person without this role. However, as I am
framing the case the details of Nathan's occupation should not be
important. Thus, we could create the following analogous case:

> Anthony and five others are scuba-diving deep under water.
Suddenly the oxygen supplies of the five other divers fail.
Nathan has a button he could press which would redirect Anthony's
oxygen supply to the other five divers, saving the five but
killing Anthony.\
> Should Nathan press the button?

##### II. Property
A confusing factor in both the scuba-diving case and Surgery is
that Anthony's oxygen supply and Anthony's organs are *his
property*. Thus, we are not only killing Anthony but also stealing
from him. However, this is not particularly morally relevant
because failure to prevent death is much worse than stealing.
For instance, consider the following case:

> Nathan could save the life of one patient by stealing  Anthony's
> kidney. Afterwards Anthony would never discover the lost kidney and
> would lead a normal life. \
> Is it permissible for Nathan to take Anthony's kidney to save a patient?

This case may also suffer from being overly gruesome. As a
cleaner case, imagine that Nathan could somehow by stealing
Anthony's watch (while Anthony is sedated, such that Anthony never
finds out) save a patient's life. 
I think both of these cases indicate that Nathan's PD to prevent
death is stronger than his ND to refrain from stealing.

##### III. How many PDs is one ND?

Another reason to question the judgment based on weighing the
number of PDs versus the number of NDs involved is the
arbitrariness of where we draw the cut-off between how many PDs
are equivalent to one ND.
For instance, imagine Nathan's choice was whether to kill Anthony
in order to save one-million people. It seems clear that
he must kill Anthony. Decreasing the number one-million, we find
that an advocate of not killing Anthony in Surgery must define some
arbitrary cut-off $x\ge 5$ for when killing one person to save
$x$ people becomes impermissible. But there seems to be little
reason why this should be larger than $5$.

I hope these morally irrelevant modifications of Surgery persuade
the reader that the correct course of action in Surgery is to
kill Kevin. 

# Conclusion

I have demonstrated that the supposed difference between the
moral importance of PDs and NDs is illusory. By fully specifying
Surgery and modifying morally-irrelevant details, I have
shown that it is permissible for Nathan to harvest Kevin's
organs, killing one to save five.

# Acknowledgments
I would like to thank Nathan for provoking me to think more
deeply about this question and give an uncomfortable answer.
I also would like to thank Julian for helping me better
articulate my argument and for suggesting morally irrelevant
details that I could remove from the Surgeon case to make the
conclusion more intuitive. 

# Bibliography

[1] Foot, Philippa. "The problem of abortion and the doctrine of the double effect." (1967).


