{title}
Epic extremal graph theory facts
{contents}

{description}
I have been reading a bunch of papers about extremal graph theory
recently. I'm summarizing the results here for reference purposes.
{body}

# super-saturation of cycles

beg thm
"A classic result of Erdos / Bondy / Simonovits says that
$ex(C_{2k}) = O(n^{1+1/k})$.

Simonovits also proved: for each $k\le O(1)$ there is a constant
$C$ such that any graph with at least $Cn^{1+1/k}$ edges contains
at least $\Omega((m/n)^{2k}) \ge \Omega(n^2)$ edges."
end thm
beg pf
In particular, this means that random graphs have the fewest
$C_{2k}$'s among graphs with a given edge-density. "

[Supersaturation of even linear cycles in linear hypergraphs](https://www.cambridge.org/core/services/aop-cambridge-core/content/view/240493C1F42618819DA9B16CE7F3E4BD/S0963548320000206a.pdf/supersaturation-of-even-linear-cycles-in-linear-hypergraphs.pdf)
Tao Jiang, and Liana Yepremyan
So, to be clear, Jiang and Yepremyan don't actually prove this,
they just cite it. I
just couldn't find the Simonovits paper that does.
end pf

# cycles vs cycles and cycles vs paths
Generalized Turán problems for even cycles
arXiv:1712.07079v3 [math.CO] 17 Dec 2018
Dániel Gerbner ∗
Ervin Győri †
Abhishek Methuku ‡
Máté Vizer §

We will have implicitly $n = |V(G)|$ throughout the section. For
a graph $H$ and a set of graphs $\mathcal{F}$ let $ex(H,
\mathcal{F})$ denote the maximum number of $H$'s that could be in
any $\mathcal{F}$-free graph.

beg thm
$ex(C_{2\ell}, C_{2k}) = \Theta(n^{\ell})$.
end thm

beg thm 
$ex(C_{2\ell}, \{C_3,C_4,\ldots, C_{2\ell-1}, C_{2k}\}) =
\Theta(n^{2})$.
end thm

beg lem [Nikiforov]
In any $C_{2k}$-free graph we have
 $$\mu(G)\le O(\sqrt{n}).$$
Note: there appears to be a rather unfortunate typo in this theorem in Nikiforov's paper. But this is the theorem.
end lem

beg thm [PATHS]
$$ex(P_\ell, C_{2k}) \le k^{\ell} n^{(\ell+1)/2}$$
end thm
beg pf
Let $\# W_\ell$ denote the number of walks of length $\ell$.A
$$\# P_\ell \le \frac{1}{2}\#W_\ell \le n \cdot \frac{1^{t} A^{\ell-1} 1}{1^{t}1} \le n\mu(A^{\ell-1}) = n\mu(A)^{\ell-1} \le n^{(\ell-1)/2}.$$
end pf

