\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}
\newcommand{\legendre}[2]{\genfrac{(}{)}{}{}{#1}{#2}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


References:

- topology: wikipedia
- complex analysis: Evan Chen, The Napkin

## topology

- **compact**: every open cover has a finite sub-cover.
- **complete**: limits of cauchy sequences exist
- **open set** (in a metric space): $\forall x\in U, \exists
    \eps>0$ such that  $\setof{y}{d(x,y)<\eps}\subseteq U$. 

- **discrete topology**: all sets are open 
  - is compact iff finite

- **product topology**: minimal amount of open sets to make
    projections $\pi_i : \prod_j X_j \mapsto X_i$ continuous for
    each  $i$.
    - **continuous**: $f^{-1}(\text{open set}) =\text{open set}$
- open sets in the product topology are unions of sets of the
    form 
    $$\prod_i U_i$$
    - where $U_i$ is open in  $X_i$ and $U_i\neq X_i$ for only
        finitely many  $i$.

- **Tychonoff's theorem**: product of compact spaces is compact 

## complex analysis

Derivative:
$$\lim_{h\to 0} \frac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h},$$
if it exists, which is a high bar because $h\to 0$ means complex
limit.

**holomorphic** / entire: complex differentiable on domain /
all of $\C$.

ex: polynomials, $\exp$, nice compositions of holomorphic
functions.

Countour integrals

$$\oint_\alpha f(z) dz = \int_a^{b} f(\alpha(t)) \alpha'(t) dt$$


<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Let $\gamma$ parameterize the unit circle. Then
$$\oint_\gamma \frac{1}{z} dz = 2\pi i.$$

For any integer $m\neq -1$,
$$\oint_\gamma z^{m} dz  = 0.$$
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
$\gamma$ a loop, $f$ holomorphic

$$\oint_\gamma f(z) dz = 0.$$

Another way of saying this is, if you have two different curves
with the same endpoints then the contour integrals will be the
same.

</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Let $D$ be a disk, and $\gamma$ parameterize the boundary $t\mapsto R\exp(it)$.
Let $f$ be holomorphic.
For any $a$ in the interior of  $D$ we have

$$f(a) = \frac{1}{2\pi i} \oint_\gamma \frac{f(z)}{z-a} dz.$$
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Over a disk, a holomorphic function is given exactly by its
Taylor Series.
</div>

Some important results:

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Let $f$ be entire, and suppose $|f(z)|< 1000$ for all $z$. Then
$f$ is the constant function.

</div>

### memomorphic functions

- holomorphic: proto-ex: polynomials
- memomorphic: proto-ex: rational functions

memomorphic functions are basically holomorphic everywhere except
for a couple of "poles".

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**

memomorphic function:
not identically zero on any open neighborhood. 

so basically just has a bunch of isolated poles.

Another way of defining memomorphic functions is in terms of
Laurent Series:

For a function to be memormophic it should be holomorphic in
neighborhoods of all points except for a "small" number of poles. 
(this is allowed to be infinite, e.g., like $1/\sin(z)$ is
memomorphic) but the poles must have non-intersecting open balls
around them).
If $a$ is a pole then it is required to, in some neighborhood of
$a$ admit a series expansion
$$f(z)  = \frac{c_{-m}}{(z-a)^{m}} + \cdots + c_0 + c_1 (z-a) +
\cdots .$$

So it's like a Taylor series but we can have some pole crap at
the front.


In the expression
$\frac{c}{z^{m}}$
$c$ is callled the residue, $m$ the order of the pole (simple
pole is $m=1$)

</div>

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**

Winding number:
Let $\gamma$ be a loop.

$$\frac{1}{2\pi i}\oint_\gamma \frac{1}{z-p} dz$$

</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**

$$\frac{1}{2\pi i}\oint_\gamma f(z) dz = \sum_{\text{pole } p}
\text{winding}(\gamma, p) Res(f; p)$$
</div>

