\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}
\newcommand{\legendre}[2]{\genfrac{(}{)}{}{}{#1}{#2}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


- $X$ is open iff $\overline{X}$ is closed.
- (but sets can be both open and closed)

In a general topology we just define which sets are open, and
they must obey axioms.
We say $\tau\subseteq \mathcal{P}(X)$ is a topology on space $X$ if it satisfies the following properties: 

1. $\varnothing, X \subset \tau$.
2. Any union of elements of $\tau$ is an element of $\tau$.
3. Any intersection of finitely many elements of $\tau$ is an element of $\tau$.

- **complete space**: limits exist.
- $Y$ is **compact** if every open cover has a finite sub-cover

Often we work in metric space.
In a metric space:

- $Y$ is an **open set** iff for every point $y\in Y$ there is a
    ball (aka neighborhood) of $y$ contained in $Y$.
- $Y$ is a **closed set** iff for every convergent sequence $y_1,y_2,\ldots \in Y$ the limit is contained in $Y$.
- **sequentially compact**: every sequence has a convergent
    subsequence.

**Metric spaces are compact iff they are sequential compact.**

Some usefull things to know:
A closed subset $Y$ of a compact set $X$ is compact.
Proof is nice. Take an open cover of $Y$. Extend to an open cover
of $X$ by adding $Y\setminus X$ which is an open set because
$Y$ is a closed set. Then find a finite subcover for $X$. 
Then toss $Y\setminus X$ from that subcover if it was in it. 
This is now a finite subcover for $Y$.



