\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\{#1\}}
\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\{#1 \mid #2\}}
\newcommand{\im}{\mathrm{im}}

\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}



I hopefully am going to keep a running log of phi-club happenings
and future plans here. Please post comments about any things that
I'm missing or any ideas for future agenda items!

### Future

- finish 2-factor theorem
  - Hall
- FPT algorithm for "are there k edge-disjoint cycles"?

### Nov 21:

Today we talked about some stuff Alek read in the Parameterized
Complexity book, specifically about "kernelization". 

Then we solved the following problem which is not actually
related to FPT stuff, but was in the textbook because it was
talking about Konig's theorem / matching stuff:

You partition space into $n$ equal-area school-districts and $n$
equal-area military-districts. You want to build $n$ pizza shops
such that there is one pizza shop in every school-district and
also in every military-district. 
Is it possible?
Turns out the answer is yes. 
You can think of the problem as having a $2n$-vertex
weighted-bipartite graph, with the vertices corresponding to the
school-districts and military-districts. 
The weight is how much the districts overlap. 

Then, you can ask the question, what is the minimum vertex cover
for this graph?
And, the answer is $n$. Because you cover at most $1$-unit worth
of military area per each selected school district. 

But then by LP duality or something this means that there is a
matching in this graph of size $n$.
And that matching corresponds to where you should put the pizza
shops.

### Nov 14:

- chicken nuggets
- quasipoly algorithm for something

- which random graphs are bipartite?
  - $p=\frac{\Theta(1)}{n}$  threshold
  - TODO: whats the constant dependence
  - turns out that $p=\Theta(\frac{1}{n})$ is probably also
      planar threshold. we were mis-remembering what an
      induced minor is. seems rather important.

- we thought about chromatic number of random graphs 
- no ideas for $\chi>2$.
- except, some bounds: e.g., if you have a $K_4$ then your
    chromatic number is at least $3$.
- possible conjecture: maybe there's just a point where you get a
    really high chromatic number instantly.

### Nov 7:

- Do PRGs exist? vs 1 bit adversaries?

- we analyzed the case without a clock. 
- there are a very finite number of 2-state DFAs and also a very
    small number of functions on 2-state DFAs
- if you don't care about run-time buckets is a good idea
- if you do care about run time then feeding like all 1s and then
    your random bits is maybe a good idea? it was a little bit
    subtle I don't remember what ended up working
- with a timer seems harder...

### Nov 1:

- analyzed chopsticks a bit
- proved that you can do quadratic residosity stuff in some
    special cases

### Oct 21:

- thought about 2 factor theorem
- maybe proved it for $4$-regular graphs.
- Konig's theorem: in a bipartite graph, maximum matching size = minimum vertex cover size 

### Oct 14:

- bijection between 7-tuples of trees and trees
- what other numbers work?

### Oct 7: 

- union-find tried 

### Sept 30: 

- triangulation of a triangle, color vertices with 3 colors some color is banned on each of the edges. show that this is equivalent to Brower's fixed point theorem which says that any function from ball to ball has a fixed point. 

### Aug 10:

- 2-server on a circle

### Aug 1: 

- rational approximations for numbers

