\renewcommand{\O}{\mathcal{O}}
\newcommand{\tilo}{\widetilde{\O}}
\newcommand{\nil}{\varnothing}
\newcommand{\one}{\mathbb{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}
\newcommand{\legendre}[2]{\genfrac{(}{)}{}{}{#1}{#2}}
\newcommand{\EXP}{\mathsf{EXP}}
\newcommand{\PSPACE}{\mathsf{PSPACE}}
\newcommand{\NEXP}{\mathsf{NEXP}}
\newcommand{\PP}{\mathsf{P}}
\newcommand{\NP}{\mathsf{NP}}
\newcommand{\erdos}{Erd\H{o}s}
\newcommand{\pmo}{\set{-1,1}}
\newcommand{\zo}{\set{0,1}}


\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


# modular forms

So why do we care about the modular group
$G=SL_2(\Z)/\set{-1,1}$?

Well actually the answer has to do with complex lattices.
The most important thing to know about complex lattices is the
following fact:

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
$$ \set{1,z}, \set{az+b, cz+d} $$ 
generate the **same** lattice, when $ad-bc=1$.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
The first lattice is obviously contained in the second. The fact
that the matrix abcd is invertible in $SL_2(\Z)$ shows the other inclusion.
</div>

So what does this mean?
Well, suppose that we consider $\setof{(u,w)}{u,w\in \C}$ modulo we
consider  $(u,w)\equiv (u',w')$ if $u/w = u'/w'$.
This is called **homothety**.
Of course this is in correspondence with $\C$.
But then there is an interesting and natural way to define an
action of $SL_2(\Z)$ on this equivalence class of vectors: matrix
multiplication.

So FACT:
<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Let $H$ be the upper half plane, $G$ the modular group, $R$ the
set of complex lattices and $R/\C$ mean lattices modulo
homothety.
Then,
$H/G \cong R/\C. $
</div>

Ok, so lattices are actually something rather interesting and
motivated so now it maybe makes a bit more sense why we care
about the modular group.

Here's an example of a modular form:
$$ G_k(\Gamma) = \sum_{\gamma\in \Gamma}\frac{1}{|\gamma|^{2k}}.  $$ 

Yeah so that's a very nice object and it's related to the modular
group because we showed that the modular group is in some sense
related to lattices.

# boolean anlaysis

A trick for sampling things in a $p$-biased measure when you want
them to have disjoint supports.
You put them in buckets and then sample with $1/2$ measure.

# coupling

Talked about coupling in probability class.

So, what is this why do we care.
Well, there's this notion of TV distance between distributions:

$$ d_{TV}(P,Q) = \frac{1}{2}\sum_x |P(x)-Q(x)| = \sup_{\text{events }A} P(A)-Q(Q) = \inf_{\text{couplings }X,Y} \Pr[P(X)\neq P(Y)].$$ 

So we are interested in analyzing mixing times of markov chains:
how many steps do you have to go before the TV distance is small?

And a nice way to do this is by giving a coupling and arguing
"locally" that the coupling causes $P(X)\neq P(Y)$ to decrease.

