\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


# coloring problem 

**mono trio**: three collinear points spaced out by distance 1,
all with the same color (wrt some coloring)

A cool question: 
Fix $t\in [5]$.
- can you color $\R^2$ with $t$ colors and avoid mono trios?

Turns out:
There is a $3$ coloring based on a plane tiling with hexagons + do
weird stuff to the boundaries (appropriately assign them) that
avoids mono trios!

A special class of colorings: 
"circly" colorings: all points at a fixed distance from the
origin have the same color.

> Question: is there some nice color reduction thing that you can do in higher dimensions?

Anyways, let's think about circly colorings a bit.

It turns out we get the following formulas:

If you have a circle of radius $r$, then the following two other
circles must have different colors:
- $$r\mapsto \sqrt{r^{2}+2}$$
- $$r\mapsto \sqrt{r^{2}-1}$$    (note that your circle must have
    $r\ge 1$ to apply this rule)

If you have circles of radii $a,b$ of the same color, then we
find a circle of this radius that must have a different color:
- $$a,b \mapsto \sqrt{\frac{a^{2}+b^{2}}{2} - 1}$$
- $$a,b \mapsto \sqrt{2b^{2}-a^{2}- 1}$$

Using these rules with the seed that $0,1$ are different colors,
it's pretty easy to show that any circly two coloring of $\R^2$
has a mono trio.

Ok, but three colors? 
This is tricky.
You could try to make an algorithm that 
- repeatedly applies these rules 
- by doing so you generate some graph
- then you need to check if that graph is $3$-colorable
- if the graph ever ends up having chromatic number at least $4$
    then we have found out that it is impossible to avoid mono
    trio in a $3$ coloring
- in fact, this would kind of work generally. we just converted
    this into a graph problem from a geometry problem.

- caveat! you can't just start from a single seed, e.g., the
    origin, and generate everything
- because many irrational things live in different universes that
    you would never explore within your tame square-roots of
    finite binary decimal universe.

- so you must branch all the universes.
- oops its too much. will probably explode your computer.  unless
    quantum.

> question: does this algorithm terminate in <5 minutes?

# 3 coloring

> But now, maybe a question you could ask is "what graphs are 3-colorable."

well, here's an easier question:
In an Erdos-Renyi graph with parameter $p$ what is the
probability that it is $K_4$ free?
Or really, what value of $p$ makes this probability constant? 

Expected number of $K_4$'s is a good indicator, especially because variance
is likely quite small.
And the expected number is $\Theta(p^{6} n^{4})$. So this would
be $p=\frac{1}{n^{\frac{2}{3}}}$ to get $\Theta(1)$ probability
probably probabbly of  $K_4$ or no $K_4$. probably didnt actually
calculate variance plz forgive.

But now back to some harder questions. 

> question: if $p=100/n$ then how likely is it to be $3$-colorable?
Maybe feels good because it is locally looking like trees?


> question: what is relationship between max-degree and chromatic number?

observation: the $p=\frac{100}{n}$ dude has $O(1)$ triangles in
expectation. 

> question: does this help us with $3$-coloring-ness?

> question: is there a relationship between average degree and chromatic number?

> question: what if instead you were looking for trios where you
> didn't enforce colinearity? or you enforced some other
> geometrical condition?

