\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\{#1\}}
\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\{#1 \mid #2\}}
\newcommand{\im}{\mathrm{im}}

\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}



I hopefully am going to keep a running log of phi-club happenings
and future plans here. Please post comments about any things that
I'm missing or any ideas for future agenda items!

### Future

- finish 2-factor theorem
  - Hall

### Nov 14:

- chicken nuggets
- quasipoly algorithm for something

- which random graphs are bipartite?
  - $p=\frac{\Theta(1)}{n}$  threshold
  - TODO: whats the constant dependence
  - turns out that $p=\Theta(\frac{1}{n})$ is probably also
      planar threshold. we were mis-remembering what an
      induced minor is. seems rather important.

- we thought about chromatic number of random graphs 
- no ideas for $\chi>2$.
- except, some bounds: e.g., if you have a $K_4$ then your
    chromatic number is at least $3$.
- possible conjecture: maybe there's just a point where you get a
    really high chromatic number instantly.

### Nov 7:

- Do PRGs exist? vs 1 bit adversaries?

- we analyzed the case without a clock. 
- there are a very finite number of 2-state DFAs and also a very
    small number of functions on 2-state DFAs
- if you don't care about run-time buckets is a good idea
- if you do care about run time then feeding like all 1s and then
    your random bits is maybe a good idea? it was a little bit
    subtle I don't remember what ended up working
- with a timer seems harder...

### Nov 1:

- analyzed chopsticks a bit
- proved that you can do quadratic residosity stuff in some
    special cases

### Oct 21:

- thought about 2 factor theorem
- maybe proved it for $4$-regular graphs.
- Konig's theorem: in a bipartite graph, maximum matching size = minimum vertex cover size 

### Oct 14:

- bijection between 7-tuples of trees and trees
- what other numbers work?

### Oct 7: 

- union-find tried 

### Sept 30: 

- triangulation of a triangle, color vertices with 3 colors some color is banned on each of the edges. show that this is equivalent to Brower's fixed point theorem which says that any function from ball to ball has a fixed point. 

### Aug 10:

- 2-server on a circle

### Aug 1: 

- rational approximations for numbers

