\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


Well, if you're reading this then skyspace2.0 officially works.
First, I want to apologize: there is a little bit of gross-ness
that came from porting skyspace1.0 to skyspace 2.0. Future
articles are all going to be made according to the new specs, 
but old articles were somewhat incompatible with the skyspace2.0
format.
Basically what I mean is, please forgive if there is gross stuff
that happened when I ported to skyspace2.0, I couldn't delete the
old content!

I will comment that skyspace2.0 is not completely done, although
I am a little exhausted from spending the last 10hrs completely
revamping it so the fixes might not come for a while.

## What's left? TODO:
1. I want to display images with the feeds if possible, I think that could be cool
2. I also need a logo and story for the recurring characters that
  I'm planning on existing in skyspace2.0: stay tuned
3. I want to have a way of letting people subscribe to receive
  updates about the blog; it's not quite clear to me yet how best
  to do this
4. I haven't added discuss back into this yet
topics and index are kind of gross, should style them up
5. Finally, most obviously, I need posts!

These will hopefully be coming in the next couple of days. maybe

thanks for the patience!
I'm excited to embark on the era of skyspace2.0 with you!

