\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


# problems

Long story short: skyspace software is a total mess. 
This is really a shame. What are the most pressing issues?
Let me summarize them here to remind myself, or to prompt the
industrious reader to submit a PR!

- compilation scripts
  - only compile posts with diffs
  - auto compile ToCs (not just for most recent blog post, like
      that's pretty nasty)
  - auto compile images
  - but maybe somehow try to only compile images if they have
      changes? not sure you can detect this? iirc the problem is
      that inkscape produces svgs? i really don't remember why I
      even need to compile images.
- documentation:
  - like its really hard to remember how to add a pdf or an image
- latex rendering for descriptions?
- maybe auto generate descriptions
- make the encryption pipeline better
- and I forgot everything else that is broken

I think the best change to do would really be "only compile posts
with diffs, but for those posts compile ToCs and (maybe?) compile
images". 
Actually, image compilation is really slow. reeeeealy slow. so
not sure what the best move there is. maybe ditch inkscape
because it can't even draw good things? idk.

**EDIT**: This has since been largely fixed. It was a really easy
fix. But it makes such a differnece to only compile $O(1)$ files
every time instead of ~$100$.
Things that are still lacking:

- better Tex Support (e.g., in description field)
- optimized (/automated?) image compilation
- streamlined encryption

# new feature

encryption. yup:
[awestover.github.io/skyspace/encryption_mwe/](https://awestover.github.io/skyspace/encryption_mwe/)

If you see a blog post and it looks like complete nonsense there
are two possibilities: 

1) It was written by Blobby
2) I encrypted it

If I encrypted it you can go to the website linked above and
decrypt it. If you need the password lmk ig. 

And, for fun, I will encrypt the final part of this blog post. 
truth be told its really not worth decrypting. In the future
maybe I'll have some more exclusive content encrypted. But
today I gotta go do some other stuff. 

# software development

```
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
```
