{title}
basic rep theory
{contents}
shur
maschke
main
frobenious
{description}
some basic rep theory
{body}

So what is rep theory?
It's taking a group $G$ and then associating linear maps (also
known as matrices if you are willing to fix a basis) to the group
elements in a "structure-preserving" way.
More specifically, it is a homomorphism
$$\phi: G \to GL(V)$$
This means $\phi(gh) \cdot v = \phi(g)\phi(h) \cdot v.$

IN this blog post I hope to introduce you to some of the
important theorems. But really if you want to learn rep theory
you gotta work some examples yourself.

begin ex
find all the representations of $S_n$ up to isomorphism. 

- For $n=3$.
- For all $n$
end ex

ok so first, some definitions:

begin defn
**$G$-invariant subspace**: subspace fixed by action of $G.$
i.e. $W\subset V$ such that $\phi(g) W = W$ for all $g\in G$.
end defn

begin defin
**irreducible rep**: no proper $G$-invariant subspace
end defin

begin rmk
In this blog post all groups are assumed to be finite, and all
vector spaces are over the complex numbers. Some stuff breaks if
we don't have these assumptions.
end rmk

# shur

begin lem
Let $\phi: G\to GL(V), \phi': G\to GL(V')$ be irreducible
$G$-representations. Let $T:V\to V'$ be a map that commutes with the
reps, i.e. $T\circ \phi = \phi'\circ T.$
Then $T$ is a scalar.
end lem
begin pf
$\ker T$ is  $G$-invariant subspace, but not proper subspace
(none exist due to the irreducibility of the representations).
so the map is the zero-map or an isomorphism.

Take an eigenvector $\lambda$ of $T$ : this must exist due to us
working over the complex numbers.
Then we see that $T=\lambda I$.
end pf

# maschke

begin thm
And representation can be decomposed as a direct sum of irreps
end thm
begin pf 
Define a $G$-invariant hermetian form on the space.
Then, if $W$ is $G$ invariant, $W^\perp$ is also $G$-invariant.
Thus, the rep decomposes into blocks as $W\oplus W^\perp$
end pf


# main

character: trace
character inner-product: hermetian thing

begin thm
- num irreps (up to iso) is num conj classes
- irreps are orthonormal
- $\sum d_i^2 = |G|, d_i  | |G|$ where $d_{i}$ is the dimension
    of the $i$-th irrep.
end thm
begin pf
class functions: constant on conj classes. characters are basis
for class functions.

bunch of complicated stuff

regular rep
end pf

# some random facts that are kind of cool


> can we read the normal subgroups of a group off of its character table?
good question!
one idea is, well normal subgroups are unions of conjugacy
classes, so take a bunch of unions of conjugacy classes.
Lagrange's theorem them (subgroups have order dividing order of
the group). Then you would really have to check if it's closed as
far as I can tell.

ok but here's a better way.

begin theorem
Normal subgroups appear as kernels of irreps

**EDIT: this is actually false**
Some normal subgroups will appear as kernels of irreps, but in
general there may be many more normal subgroups than can possibly
occur as kernels of irreps.
end theorem

First we need a lemma:
begin lem
For character $\chi_\rho$ of a dimension $d$ irrep $\rho$, $\chi(g)=\chi(e)=d \iff \rho_g = Id.$ 
end lem
begin pf
Say that we have a representation $g\mapsto R_g$ where $g^k=e$
and thus of course $R_g^k = I$. Clearly any eigenvector $v$ for
$R_g$ satisfies $R_g v = \lambda \implies R_g^k v = \lambda^k v =
v \implies \lambda^k=1.$ so $\lambda$ is a  $k$-th root of unity.
The character of a $d$-dimensional irrep must be the sum of $d$
such eigenvalues.

In order for the sum to be $d$ it must be the sum of all $1$'s.
Only $Id$ has all eigenvalues being $1$.
end pf

Now we can get the theorem
begin pf
Let $H$ act on $\C$ by the trivial action (doing nothing!). 
Now, consider the induced representation $\rho$ on $G$ from $H$ (look
down to see what this means.)

**the following stuff is kind of false; I have yet to completely
understand why**
We claim that $\ker \rho = H$. We can see this by Mackey's
formula, and the fact that $H$ is normal so conjugation fixes
$H$. Oh and we are also applying the lemma here.

Ok, then by Maschke's theorem, we can write $\rho$ as a direct
sum of irreps. But to be in the kernel of a direct sum you must
be in the kernel of each (non-zero) summand.

Hence $H$ is in the kernel of some non-zero number of the irreps.
end pf


# frobenius

**induction:** build a rep from a rep of a subgroup.
To do this you basically make a bunch of copies of the rep on the
subgroup and move around between them.
**restriction**: build a rep of a subgroup from a rep on the
group. you just take the restriction

 $$Hom(\texttt{Res}_H^G V, W)^H \cong Hom(V, \texttt{Ind}_H^G W)^G$$

And the formula also holds for characters.

Also it is probably equivalent in some sense to Mackey's formula
 $$\chi_{ind}(g) = \frac{1}{|H|}\sum_{x\in G, xgx^{-1}\in H} \chi(xgx^{-1}).$$


> how many MIT students does it take to prove Frobenius Reciprocity? apparently more than 6.

# specht modules

ok we can construct the irreps of $S_n$ by defining 
- young diagram: partition of n arranged into a left justified square diagram
- tableux: put numbers in young diagram
- tabloid: we don't care about numbers order within rows
- polytabloid: linear combo of tabloids

and then apparently polytabloids with the obvious group action of
$S_n$ corresponds to irreps of $S_n.$ crazy!


