{title}
Cauchy Shwarz almost equality
{contents}

{description}
This is part of my series of doing problems from the book "problems from the book" (by Titu
Adnreescu Gabriel Dospinescu). Today is about an interesting variant of Cauchy Schwarz.
{body}

Cauchy-Shwarz inequality is as follows:

beg thm
$$\left(\sum a_i^2\right) \left(\sum b_i^2\right) \ge \left(\sum
a_i b_i \right)^2$$
with equality iff all $a_i$ are identical, and all $b_i$ are also
identical.
end thm

To see why this is true, first note that equality indeed holds if
there are $a,b$ so that all $a_i = a$ and all $b_i = b$.
Then, note that perturbations from this equality case increase the left hand side more.

ok, but now here's the question from the book: 

> If we are only a little bit away from the equality case, can we
> give some sort of statement of the form "all $a_i$'s and
> $b_i$'s are pretty close to each other"?

More formally this is the problem:

beg prop
Fix $n\ge 2$.
Let $a_1,\ldots, a_n$ be positive numbers satisfying
$$\sum a_i \sum \frac{1}{a_i} \le (n+1 / 2)^2.$$
Then, $\max a_i \le 4 \min a_i$.
end prop
beg pf
Assume for sake of contradiction that the proposition is false.
Fix $a_i$ constituting a counter example.
Let $x=\min a_i$ and let $\eps$ be such that $\max a_i =
(4+\eps)x$.

For notational convenience let $a_{n-1}=x, a_{n} =(4+\eps)x$.

Note that Cauchy shwarz says 
$$\left(\sum a_i\right \sum \frac{1}{a_i} \ge n^{2},$$
so we are pretty darn close to the equality case. This is why we
suspect it is reasonable to find a bound on the multiplicative
size of the range of $a_i$.


We have
$$\left(\sum a_i\right \left(\sum \frac{1}{a_i}\right) = \left((5+\eps)x+ \sum_{i=1}^{n-2} a_i\right \left(\frac{1}{x} + \frac{1}{(4+\eps)x} + \sum_{i=1}^{n-2} \frac{1}{a_i}\right)$$

By Cauchy Shwarz:
$$\left((5+\eps)x+ \sum_{i=1}^{n-2} a_i\right \left(\frac{1}{x} + \frac{1}{(4+\eps)x} + \sum_{i=1}^{n-2} \frac{1}{a_i}\right) \ge \left(n-2 + \sqrt{(5+\eps)(1+\frac{1}{4+\eps})}\right)^{2}.$$
Optimizing the quadratic, we find that for apporpriately chosen
$\eps$ the expression would be larger than $(n+ 1/2)^{2}$, a
contradiction.

end pf


