{title}
generators for multiplicative groups of integers
{contents}

{description}

{body}

beg rmk
A well known fact is that $\Z_p^{*}$, the multipicative group of
the integers modulo $p$, is cyclic, i.e., has a generator.

For a short proof, recall that
the number of elements of order $d$ in a group is at most the
number of solutions to
$$x^{d}\equiv 1 \mod p,$$
which is at most $\phi(d)$. 
So we have:
$$p\le \sum_{d\mid (p-1)} \phi(d).$$

On the other hand, for any $n$ we have
$$\sum_{d\mid n} \phi(d) = n$$
which can be seen by noting that $\Pr_{x\gets[n]}[gcd(n,x) = \frac{n}{d}] =
\phi(d)$  which can be seen by listing the things which have
$\frac{n}{d} \mid gcd(n,x)$, namely $\frac{n}{d},\frac{2n}{d},\frac{3n}{d}\ldots, \frac{dn}{d}$ 
and then crossing out the ones which have additional divisors beyond $d$.
Anyways, this means that the number of elements of order $d\mid (p-1)$ is
really $\phi(d)$ for each $d\mid (p-1)$.

Anyways, but that's not what I want to talk about. 
end rmk

beg rmk
Another well-known fact is that for $p\neq q$ odd primes the
group  $\Z_{pq}^{*}$ is not cyclic. 

proof: 

$g^{\lcm(p-1,q-1)}\equiv 1$ for any $g\in \Z_{pq}^{*}$ but
$\lcm(p-1,q-1)<(p-1)(q-1)$.

Maybe one day I'll think about even numbers. But for today lets
assume they don't exist.

end rmk

ok but what I actually wanted to talk about is this:
beg thm
The group $Z_{p^{k}}^{*}$ is cyclic.
end thm
beg pf
We proceed by induction. 
The base case will be $k=2$.
For $k=2$ we have that  $|\Z_{p^{2}}^{*}| = p(p-1)$.
Let $\gamma$ be a generator for  $\Z_p^{*}$, we showed above that
this exists.
Then $p-1 \mid ord_{p^{2}}(\gamma)$, where $ord_{p^{2}}$ denotes
the order of an element in $\Z_{p^{2}}^{*}$.

Also observe $ord_{p^{2}}(1+p) \equiv 0 \mod p.$

But then $(1+p)\gamma$ has order  $p(p-1)$.
Proof of this claim:
imagine $p\mid ord(x),p-1\mid ord(y)$.
Then $(xy)^{p}\notequiv 1, (xy)^{p-1}\notequiv 1$. Hence
$ord(xy)= p(p-1)$.

Now we consider $k>2$ by induction. 
To be continued after the semester ends...

end pf

