\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


Sorry brief post for today.
A shame, because color coding is actually my favorite technique!
Maybe I'll come back and re-write at some point.

TODO: 
- look up Zwick Alon "Perfect Hash Families" / other pseudorandom objects useful for derandomization

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Feedback vertex set (find a set of $k$ vertices whose deletion
renders your multigraph acyclic) is in FPT.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Reduction rules:

1. Delete vertices involved in loops
2. Reduce multi-edges to be at most 2-multiplicity
3. Delete connected components which are trees
4. If you have a degree-2 vertex you can "contract": remove the
   vertex and join its neighbors. This is safe because it doesn't
   affect the topology of your graph.

In particular these reduction rules should guarantee that our
graph has min-degree $3$ after applying the reductions.

Now I think we have the following property: 
Let $X$ be a set of $k$ vertices whose removal renders the graph
acyclic. Then $1/2$ of the edges in $G$ have an endpoint in $X$.

Proof: 
I didn't fully follow the proof. 
I think the gist is that once you remove $X$ you gotta have a
forest which has very few edges. And the min-degree condition
is somehow just really good.

FPT algo:
So based on the key lemma we get the following FPT algo for this
problem

```python
for 4^k itterations:
  while graph not acyclic:
    while there is a reduction rule you can apply:
      apply that reduction rule
    Now randomly guess an edge and an endpoint of that edge to add to your feedback vertex set; succeed with probability 1/4
```

This should work with constant PR.

</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Longest Path in FPT
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
The cannonical example of color coding!

There's also a fancier **divide and color** algorithm.
The idea is you try to partition the vertex set.
But you try a bunch of different partitions. 
You have really high branching at low depth in the recursion tree
and then really low branching at high depth.
Somehow this improves the constant of the standard color coding
algo a tiny bit.
</div>

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
If you randomly color a $k$-edge graph with $100\sqrt{k}$ colors
then with probability at least  $2^{-\sqrt{k}}$ you get a proper
coloring
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
TODO
</div>

<div class="rmk envbox">**Remark.**
This is cool. $2^{o(k)}$ is rare for FPT algos.
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
$d$-clustering chromatic coloring / color and conquer. 

We say that a graph is a $d$-cluster graph if it consists of $d$
connected components, each of which is a clique.
Problem: is there a set of $k$ edges you can modify (add or
delete) to make input graph be a $d$-cluster graph.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**

Assume yes instance. 
Let $A$ be the set of edges we need to modify.
So we apply the lemma in hopes that $A$ is properly colored. 

If so, somehow this makes the problem relatively straightforward.

**TODO: elaborate**
</div>

# Derandomization

- splitters 
- universal sets
- perfect hash families

TODO

## examples of derandomization

TODO

