\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


A nice way to think about the "separation lemma" that is used in
the treewidth approximation FPT scheme (credit to Tomas for
pointint this out):

<div class="clm envbox">**Claim.**
Suppose you choose any set of $R$ red vertices.
Then there should be a bag of the tree-decomposition that you can
take such that there at most $R/2$ red vertices in all the
connected components left after the removal of that bag.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Direct the edges in the tree from "bag with fewer red vertices"
to "bag with more red vertices" (arbitrarily break ties).

Then find a sink bag. This sink bag is the bag you want.
</div>

<div class="rmk envbox">**Remark.**
Something I was confused about in the tree decomposition
algorithm:

Once we pick the set that we are going to separate and then turn
into a bag we **itterate over all partitions of that set into
three parts** and
run min-cut between each possible tripple of ways the set could
get split.

By the lemma above there has to be a good way (or else we have a
proof of large treewidth).
We take that good partition.

Then let's call the partition $S\setminus B, (S\cap (A\cap B)) \cup X,  S\setminus A$.

To recurse we then recurse on $S\setminus B, (S\cap (A\cap B)) \cup X$
and $S\setminus A, (S\cap (A\cap B)) \cup X$.
The idea is, $B$ interfaces only with $S\setminus B, (S\cap (A\cap B)) \cup X$, and similar for $A$.
So this is what we want.

</div>

# bidimensionality

win/win framework.

Powerful theorem:
large tree width implies you must have a large grid as a minor.

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Let $G$ be a planar graph with treewidth $t$. 
Then $G$ contains an $\Omega(t)\times \Omega(t)$ grid as a minor!
</div>

Sometimes *minor* is a bit annoying to work with.
Relation notion: 
"graph achievable by edge contractions."

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Let $G$ be a planar graph with treewidth $t$. 
Then there is a sequence of edge contractions on $G$ that results
in "$\Gamma_t$", which is a grid, and then you triangulate it,
and then you have one corner vertex that is connected to all the
boundary vertices.
</div>


# a very simple example of using treewidth
<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
3-coloring is FPT when parameterized by treewidth.
Run time is $O(3^{k}\cdot k\cdot n)$.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**

We use the "add edge bag" framework.

Our DP is as follows: 
For each node $t$ in the tree decomposition and each 3-coloring
$f: X_t\to [3]$ of the bag at  $t$ let
$D[t, f]$ denote "is there an extension of $f$ to $f':G_t\to [3]$
that is a valid 3-coloring of $G_t$?"

Now we recurse stuff as follows:

- leaf bags: let $f: \varnothing  \to [3]$ is the "empty function"
    (color zero vertices). This is our only option for a coloring.
    We say $D[t, f] = \top$. (yes I have started using $\bot,
    \top$ for T/F because latex has pretty good support for them
    and because $\bot$ kinda looks like $\perp$, which is my
    favorite binary relation).
- add vertex bags: at this point the vertex is isolated, so its
    fine as long as the restriction of $f$ to not color this
    vertex is fine
- add edge bags: as long as you don't add an edge between two
    vertices with the same color you're chilling
- forget vertex bags: try all the colors for the vertex that
    you're forgetting. if any of them work then you're good.
- join bags: take the intersection of the colorings for both
    childs.

</div>

