\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


LA = linear algebra
GT = graph theory

Matroid theory = LA + GT.

# basic definitions for matroids 

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
A matroid is a set of "edges" $U$ and "independent sets"
$F\subset\mathcal{P}(U)$ (not in the graph theory sense in the LA
sense) which I shall call **isets** with the following
properties:

1. empty set is an iset.
2. subset of an iset is an iset. (hereditary property)
3. If you have two isets with distinct sizes, then there is an
   element of the larger iset that you can add to the smaller
   iset and still get an iset. (exchange property)

**Basis: inclusion-wise maximal set of edges forming an iset** 
**Circuit: inclusion-wise minimal set of edges forming not
forming an iset**.
**Rank: size of bases.**

</div>

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
Uniform matroid: 
Fix $r$.
Every set of size at most $r$ is an iset.
</div>

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
edges = set of vectors.
isets = linearly independent sets of vectors

this is a matroid.
</div>

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
Representation: 

Some way of associating a matrix with a matroid.

vandermonde matrix = rep of uniform matroid

</div>

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
graphical matroids

matroid edges: edges in the graph
isets: acyclic subgraphs.

It's not obvious that this is a matroid. 
Hereditary property is obvious but not exchange.
I thought the proof was
kind of clever. 
The proof is as follows.

Let $A,B \subseteq E(G)$ be isets with $|A|< |B|$.
Here's how to run an exchange.
$B$ can't have more edges than $A$ in any of the connected
components of $A$. Hence $B$ has an edge going between two
connected components of $A$. This is a safe edge to exchange.

</div>

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
representation of graphical matroids:

you direct the edges arbitrarily and then make a $V\times E$ matrix
with a $\pm 1$ in entry  $v,e$ if $e$ goes into / out of $v$.


edit:

ok so it seems that the matrix representation needs to bring into
correspondence isets and linearly indepdent combinations of
vectors.

Like in the matrix you have a column $v_e$ for each edge $e$.
And you need the property that for any iset $A\subset U$ the set
$\{v_e \mid e\in A\}$ is a linearly independent set of vectors.

Note that not all matroids are representable but nice ones are.

</div>

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Graphical Matroids admit a binary matrix representation
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**

You direct the edges arbitrarily and then make a $V\times E$ matrix
with a $\pm 1$ in entry  $v,e$ if $e$ goes into / out of $v$.

Claim 1: 
if you have a subset of edges containing a cycle then that
corresponds to a set of linearly dependent vectors.
standard thing: walk around the cycle.

Claim 2: 
If you have a set of edges which doesn't contain a cycle then
the vectors are linearly independent. 
Assume for contradiction that the vectors were linearly
dependent. Take a non-trivial linear combination of them which
makes zero.
Then look at just the edges that have non-zero weight in this
linear combination. 
One of those edges must be to a leaf node.
But then that vertex doesn't get non-zero weight in the sum, a
contradiction.


rmk: 
generally we can work in F2 where $+1=-1$ so we just have vertex
edge incidence matrix.

</div>

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
Transversal Matroids

Given a bipartite graph $U\sqcup B$ define the matroid as
follows:
universe is $U$.
$S\subseteq U$ is an iset if there is a matching saturating $S$.

Again, it's not obvious why this is a matroid.
Apparently you can prove it with "flows".

</div>

some problems are hard on matroids and some are not.

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**

- minimum / maximum weight basis: greedy algo works (b/c of exchange
    principle)
- maximum circuit: NP-hard (HAM is a special case)
- minimum circuit: "even set": given a collection of subsets $X_i$ of a universe, find the smallest number of items $S$ you can take so that $|S\cap X_i|$ is even for all $i$ NP-hard

Apparently there are a bunch of hard open problems about whether
certain matroid computations can be done in FPT.
They mention some stuff that is known to be W1-hard, and some
open stuff.

</div>

# some algorithsm  for matroid problems

$\ell$-Matroid intersection problem:
Given $\ell$ matroids over the same universe and a value $k$,
determine whether there is a set $S\subseteq U$ of size at least
$k$ which is independent in all the given matroids.

Turns out the intersection of two Matroids is not generally a
Matroid, or else this would be an easy question.

In fact, 3-Matroid intersection is NP-complete.

2-Matroid intersection is in P.

More generally, Matroid Parity is in P.

