\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\{#1\}}
\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\{#1 \mid #2\}}
\newcommand{\im}{\mathrm{im}}

\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}


probably the most common example of a problem with a simple
greedy solution is the following:

> You have a set of intervals, and want to choose a maximal pairwise disjoint set of intervals.

A pretty similar related problem is 

> You have a set of intervals, and want to draw a minimal number of lines perpendicular to the segments to stab them all.

These problems both have very straightforward solutions.

For the maximal set of intervals one, repeatedly take the
interval that ends first, and then cross out intervals that
overlap with that interval.

Similarly for the stab version, repeatedly stab at the first
endpoint, and remove things that got stabbed.

ok, now here is a twist:

> what if the intervals, rather than being situated in $\R$ are situated in the circle $\R / \Z$?

Now, there is no clear starting point. So it seems kind of
tough.
However, the problem still admits a $n\log n$ solution!

We will focus on the stabby  version, but the other version is
quite analogous.

begin def
The greedy successor of an interval $I$ is the interval which
ends first among intervals starting after $I$ ends.
end def

0. Trivial $+1$ approximation.
1. Trivial $n^2$ solution
2. First we do  some preprocessing, destroy proper containments
3. Now we iterate in a circle and compute the greedy successors 
4. Now we look at the greedy successor cycle-y things

yay

**TODO: later, actually write this up well**

**TODO: what if we have weights? Can we do DP in the circle
case?**


