\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\{#1\}}
\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\{#1 \mid #2\}}
\newcommand{\im}{\mathrm{im}}

\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}



Due to Micahel bender and martin Colton

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
Given a tree (not necessarily balanced) LCA(x,y) means the least
common ancestor. 
</div>

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
Given an array RMQ(i,j) means the smallest element that occurs in
the array between indices $i$ and $j$.
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Say we write down the nodes and depths of nodes as they occur in
a DFS traversal of a tree. then the shalowest node that we
encounter on the DFS between two vertices $x,y$ is their LCA.
</div>
beg pf yes
end pf

<div class="cor envbox">**Corollary.**
Thus, LCA is reduced to RMQ. But actually a very special RMQ:
RMQ on an array where adjacent elements differ by $\pm 1$.
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
we can solve RMQ pretty easily in $O(n\log n)$ prep, $O(1)$
query.
But $\pm 1$ RMQ we can do in $O(n)$ prep, $O(1)$ query.
by four russians.
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
We can reduce general RMQ to LCA, by constructing a cartesian
tree thing in linear time.
</div>

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
cartesian tree thing: 
root is min element. that splits the array into two parts, left
and right. then recursively construct those. 

note : if you build one node at a time you can build this in
linear time.
</div>


