\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


# intro
In the k-server problem you have k "servers" located in some
topological space. You recieve a series of "requests", which are
points in the topological space. You must respond to the request
by moving some subset of your servers so that at least one server
goes to the request. We will consider this problem in a metric
space. You objective is to minimize the total distance travelled
by all your servers. More precisely, our objective is to create a
strategy that achieves bounded competitive ratio. We consider
this problem with k=2 and set on a circle, where distance is
measured along the circle.

A lot of obvious strategies that you might try fail to have
bounded competitive ratio:

- "double cover" (move both servers closer to the request until
    one reaches it). This is bad: imagine the requests alternated
    between poles of the circle, and the servers started at
    anti-poles.
- "decayed double cover" (move closer server distance $d$ to the
    request, and the other server distance $\frac{d}{2}$ towards
    the request). Imagine there is a series of requests near one
    of the servers, and the other server is on the opposite side
    of the circle. We can make it oscilate and never reach
- "just move the closest one". The same example as above shows
    that this is bad.


At this point one might despair of finding any strategy that
achieves bounded competitive ratio. 
But there is this other problem called ski-rental. 
The idea there is "rent skis until you've payed the cost of skis
and then buy skis."
This is two competitive, because an adversary always breaks your
legs after you buy skis.

Anyways, what does that have to do with this problem?

# try1
I propose the following strategy

<div class="prop envbox">**Proposition.**
Name the servers server $1$ and server  $2$.
Let $w_i$ denote the distance travelled so far by server  $i$ and
let $d_i$ denote the distance from server $i$ to the request.

Then, we send whichever server minimizes $d_i + w_i$ to cover the
request.
</div>

**TODO**: 
- show that this has bounded competitive ratio
- or that it does not


# try2
**update:**
I have not been able to analyze the above proposed algorithm yet.
However, I have another algorithm that might work, by which I
mean get bounded competitive ratio and imply nothing about how
good the constants are going to be. Actually, in writing this
disclaimer, I am preparing you for some terrible constants. 

Ok here's a rough sketch of a picture of a picture of the idea:
<div class="prop envbox">**Proposition.**
Think of the servers as really good friends. 
They want to be close to one another. 
Sometimes they have to work in separate places. 
But when they do, they save up all there money and teleport back
together as soon as they've saved up enough money.

Slightly more formally, here is how the friend's work:

if they are close, say within $\frac{1}{8}$ of one-another , the
world looks like a line to them, just like how earth looks flat
if you're looking locally.

So, when they are close they double-cover. Like actual double
cover, i.e., if request is on an endpoint only send one of them. 

All is blissful when they are close.
That is, we are 2 competitive on such a sequence. Ok, I mean this is
assuming that we started in the same place as opt, which might be
a bit tricky, but let's ignore that for a moment.

But sometimes one or the other needs to travel far away.
But once it happens that $|x-y| > \frac{1}{8}$, then they keep
track of how much they move. 
Once they've accumulated $1$ movement betweeen them, or
something, they teleport back together. 

When they're far apart from each other they just handle requests
by sending the closer of the two of them.

Oh, and we can exit a far apart phase early if they end up to
land close to one another by chance sometime.

But basically once they've travelled distance $1$  appart
(or maybe this should be once one of them has travelled $+1$ more
than the other, but I think it might not matter), they teleport
back together and hopefully start another small world phase.

But the "return" teleportation is fine because we ammortize it
against all the time they spent apppart.

so, this is not actually a formal proof yet. but it's a fun story
at least.
</div>


# try3 

ok, third try is the charm. 
albiet a somewhat gross charm. 

<div class="prop envbox">**Proposition.**
We define some terminology

- Single Small world sequence: a series of requests all within a single
    interval of length $\frac{1}{32}$, starting from the servers
    being at a single location
- Two Small world sequence: a series of requests fitting within
    two intervals of size $\frac{1}{32}$ arround the two
    starting locations which are spaced out by at least $\frac{1}{32}$
- Break One: you were living in a single small world and then a
    request came far away.
- Break Two: you were living in two small worlds and a request
    came outside of both of them

Strategy: 
- when in single small world double cover
- when in two small worlds each person deals with their own
    world, but they save up money together to teleport back
    together
- when a break one happens one dude teleports to the request and
    the other dude is allowed to go to an arbitrary location
    within the small world
- when a break two happens they both are allowed to go to
    arbirarty locations (namely the next two requests)
Note that actually break one and break two are the same thing.
ok. shrug. 

Anyways here's the story
- single small world: double cover is nice
- "breaks": we can do whatever because OPT had to pay as well
- two small worlds
  - Case 1: OPT is also living in two small worlds. Then we are
      matching opt until we save up enough to teleport back
      together. and the matching opt stuff pays for the teleport
      back together
  - Case 2: OPT actually is living in a single smalll world.
      i.e., it teleported out of one of the small worlds.  But
      that teleport pays for our teleport and the work we do when
      in two small worlds

Overall, this is certainly $1024$ competitive.
</div>


