\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


I feel like I can never remember what min-cost circulation (MCC)
is, or what the basic facts about it are. So here is a short blog
post where I remind myself of what MCC is.

[Based on some scribed notes for Karger's Advanced Algorithms course](https://courses.csail.mit.edu/6.854/06/scribe/s12-minCostFlowAlg.pdf)

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
Let $G$ be a graph, where each edge $e$ has a capacity $u(e)\ge
0$ and a cost $c(e)\in \R$.
Identify source and sink vertices $s,t$ in $G$.

A min-cost max-flow is a flow on $G$ of minimum cost. 
That is, it is an assignment of values $f(e) \in [0, u(e)]$
subject to "conservation of flow" at all but the source and sink
vertices, i.e., so that  $\sum_{u\to v}f(u\to v) - \sum_{w\to u}
f(w\to u) = 0$ for all vertices $u\notin \set{s,t}$, 
which minimizes
$$\sum_e f(e) c(e).$$
</div>

<div class="rmk envbox">**Remark.**
flow can be decomposed into paths and cycles. 
</div>

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
**Min-cost circulation**: again you have a capacitated graph with
edge costs. The only difference is that there is no source /
sink.
The goal is to choose a flow, called a circulation in this
context that of course satisfies the capacities and conservation
of flow, which makes the cost of the flow minimized.
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Algorithms for min-cost max-flow and algorithms for min-cost circulation are easily interchangable.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**

Given a min-cost circulation instance you can add a dummy source
and sink vertex not connected to anything to obtain a min-cost max-flow instance. 

Here are two ways to turn a min-cost max-flow instance into a
min-cost circulation instance: 

1. Add an edge $t\to s$ with  $\infty$ capacity and  $-\infty$
   cost.
2. Find an arbitrary $s,t$ max-flow, and then find a min-cost
   circulation in the residual graph.

</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
A circulation is a minimum-cost circulation iff the residual
graph has no negative cycles. 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
If residual graph has negative cycle you can augment to obtain
lower cost. 

If we have a sub-optimal circulation, then consider the
difference between our sub-optimal circulation and an optimal
circulation. It is a circulation with a negative-weight cycle.
</div>

So you could do Bellman Ford.


<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Some super crazy algorithm can solve MCC in $O(m^{1+o(1)})$ ish.
</div>

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
Price functions are maybe good for more elementary algorithms for
computing the min-cost circulation.

A **feasible price** function is $p: V\to \R$ with 

- $p(s) = 0$,
- For each edge $v\to w$ we have $p(w) \ge p(v)+c(v\to w)$

**Reduced cost**: $c(v\to w) +p(v)-p(w)$.
It's like you pay $p(v)$ dollars to pick up the item, and earn
$p(w)$ for delivering it, and pay  $c(v\to w)$ for travelling.
If reduced cost is negative there is economic incentive to move
flow around. 

So, a price function is feasible for a residual graph if no
residual edge has negative reduced cost. 

**Observation:** the min-cost circulation in the graph of reduced
costs is the same as in the actual graph: because when you add
the reduced costs in a cycle it is the same as if you add the
real costs in a cycle.

</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Circulation is optimal iff feasible price function in residual
graph.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
If feasible price function then no negative weights, and in
particular no negative cost cycles in residual graph. Discussed
earlier this is sufficient condition. 

If circulation is minimum cost then we assign prices as follows:
add a vertex $s$ with cost  $0$ edges to all other vertices. 
Compute the prices as the distance from $s$. 
This graph has no negative cost cycles due to being optimal so
the distances will all be finite.
It is clear that distances satisfy the feasibility condition.

</div>
