{title}
FPT part 1
{contents}

{description}
Sometimes problems are hard. But sometimes they're less hard if
you parameterize them correctly.
{body}

## Kernelization

beg ex
$k$-Vertex cover: is there a set of $k$ vertices "covering" all
the edges? (i.e., so that there is a vertex incident to every
edge).

1. Kill isolated vertices
2. Always take vertices of degree larger than $k$
3. In a max-degree $d$ graph you can't hope to cover more than
   $kd$ edges. So we can instantly identify as no-instances
   graphs with too many edges.

By applying these rules we can in $n^{O(1)}$ time reduce $k$-vertex
cover to an instance of size $O(k^{2})$ edges and $O(k^{2})$
vertices.

Then you can brute force solve the kernel in time
$\binom{k^{2}}{k}$.

Remark: this is by no means the best kernel for vertex cover. 

end ex

## Branching

beg ex 
$k$-vertex cover is a good example here too. 
You can either take a vertex or take all of its neighbors. 

The algorithm is then:

- "base case": if the max degree ever drops to $2$ then apply a
    trivial algorithm to determine the vertex cover
- otherwise, branch on the highest degree vertex (i.e., chose it
    or chose its neighbors).

The nice part: this search tree can have depth at most $k$.
In fact, you can even say some stronger stuff like the number of
leaves of the tree will be at most $\phi^{k}$ where $\phi^{k}$ is
the $k$-th fibonacci number, because you can write a nice
reccurrence. I think you maybe even get a better exponential
thing. 

end ex

## Randomization

beg ex
Longest Path. I.e., is there a path (no repeated vertices) of length $k$?

Randomly color vertices with $k$ colors. 
Probability that your path is rainbow is like $e^{-k}$.

We can find rainbow paths with DP.
end ex

beg ex
isomorphic subgraph given $H,G$ where $H$ is a $k$-vertex graph
and $G$ is a max-degree $d$ graph determine whether $H$ is
isomorphic to any subgraph of $G$.

For simplicity imagine that $H$ is connected. 

randomly 2-color edges of $G$. 
hope that this results in a copy of $H$ in $G$ being highlighted
by the colors. 

Search over connected components in the colorful subgraph for one
isomorphic to $H$.

end ex


TODO: 
- Divide and color
- chromatic coloring 
- derandomization via splitters
- other chapters of the textbook

