{title}
Formal complexity measure
{contents}

{description}
Saw a cool complexity theory idea today. Quickly jotting it down
so I don't forget it. 
{body}

> QUESTION: What is the minimum size formula that computes the PARITY function?

beg defn
Boolean formula: some boolean variabes that you can combine with ANDs and ORs. 

This is distinct from a circuit because you aren't allowed to
re-use values.
end defn

Here's a pretty simple formula for computing parity:
beg thm
There is an $\bigO(n^{2})$ size formula for computing parity. 
end thm
beg pf
$$[x\oplus y \oplus z\oplus w = 0] = ([x\oplus y = 0] \land [z\oplus w = 0]) \lor ([x\oplus y = 1] \land [z\oplus w = 1]). $$
So we should get the recurrence 
$$T(n) = 4T(n/2)+4$$
or something which solves to $O(n^{2}).$

end pf

What follows is based on [some notes I found online](https://nitinsau.github.io/teaching/BFC19-mpii/lecture3.pdf).

The point of this blog post is to prove a lower bound!
beg thm
There is no boolean formula for XOR of size smaller than $n^{2}$.
end thm
beg pf

We use the notion of a **formal complexity measure**, which is a
function mapping formulas to $\R$ satisfying the following properties:

- $\mu(x_i),\mu(\overline{x_i}) = 1$.
- $\mu(x\lor y) \le \mu(x)+\mu(y)$, $\mu(x\land y) \le \mu(x)+\mu(y)$.

For $A, B\subset \set{0,1}^{n}$ define 
$$H(A, B) = \setof{(a, b)\in A \times B}{\Delta(a, b)=1}$$
where $\Delta$ measures the hamming distance. 

Define 
$$K_{A, B} = \frac{|H(A,B)|^{2}}{|A||B|}.$$

Khrapchenko’s measure: 
Let $f: \set{0,1}^{n} \to \set{0,1}$ be a circuit. Then we define
$$\mu(f) = \max{K_{A, B}: A\subset f^{-1}(0), B\subset f^{-1}(1)}$$

Turns out this is a formal complexity measure. 

The key fact about formal complexity measures is that they
provide lower bounds on the minimum size formula that computes a
function.

For $f$ being PARITY we can compute

$$\mu(f) \ge n^{2},$$
by taking $A,B$ to just be the entire pre-images of $0,1$
respectively.
Neat!

end pf

Too bad this can't prove $P\neq NP$.