\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\{#1\}}
\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\{#1 \mid #2\}}
\newcommand{\im}{\mathrm{im}}

\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}


What creates meaning?
I think chosing to see and live stories creates meaning. 
Let me expound on this a bit with a couple of examples, which are
specific to today, but should be easier to generalize from.

1. Today I talked to some people (crazy!) to get an ID card. I
   just asked a bit about their work and stuff. I also talked to
   some people when I went rock climbing. Mostly chatted about
   how to do some hard climbs. I think talking to people is
   really great. These short random interactions, we pass someone
   when walking on the street or the worker at the store. They
   are great chances to see that person's story, and also to be
   part of a story yourself. 
2. Cleaned up the house a bit. Spun a bit of a story out of it
   "clean up for Mom, she's coming home soon". Could have spun
   more of a story and decided it was a fun activity, laughed a
   little easier.
3. Defining goals. But maybe also defining rewards? I think this
   is a place I could improve. I usually just say "default is X"
   and then do default until my brain crashes. But I think this
   is not maximally intentional.
4. Journey before destination. What was my journey today?
Tried some block-y power-of-2 things. Noticed a flaw in an
earlier analysis, but noticed that it wasn't totally broken just
lost a log factor; note this second realization happened after
probably an hour of just thinking that the result was very
broken.
Tried some more medium size items case. 
I really can't tell if medium or small is the bottleneck. 
But I think its worth pushing on both.
For medium size I've had large idea-churn. By which I mean my
ideas were false and I should go back and carefully analyze to
see if I have anything better than the straightforward extension
of the similar size case. And I went to park and library. Had a
cool idea while biking: rebuild  a little bit every time, the
amount of which being proportional to the object size. 
The power of one-half special case does seem to be really a good
thing to look at, though I'm not sure what the resolution will be
yet. 

This was today. There were set-backs, trials, and personal
failings. But I shall not yield.

> "now at last they were beginning Chapter One of the Great Story which no one on earth has read: which goes on for ever: in which every chapter is better than the one before." -CS. Lewis


