\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


Just finished editing an essay for my philosophy class. 
As several of the dilligent readers of my blog have expressed
interest in this paper I am posting it here. 

Before the paper, some remarks are in order:

<div class="rmk envbox">**Remark.**
I'm not fully satisfied with how the paper turned out. To some
extent this may be the fault of me making a bad argument. But
I think there is also some element of this which is an
intrinsic unavoidable property of philosophy: 
the "right answers", assuming such objects even exist, are
fairly slippery and hard to pin down.

There's some kind of balance. 
I think a skeptical / non-commital approach to philosophy is **wrong**.
We *do* know some things, we *do* have some ethical obligations, and so on.
Just not asking the questions is **wrong**, as is avoiding
logical inevitabilities that make us uncomfortable. 

The fact that there are so many dissenting voices in philosophy
might make the following approach (which is **bad**)
attractive:

- Find some arguments for whatever life style and opinions I
    currently hold, and use those arguments to justify my way of
    life.

Seems like writing some philisophical appologies is probably a
good idea to avoid the "not thinking about things" trap. 

Anyways, what's the point?

I think the important bottom-line principles are:

- If you know something is wrong don't do it.
- If you're unsure whether something is right or wrong, you
    should try to figure out.
- Imorallity in the past is no justification for future
    immorality. And also only worth obsessing about to the point
    to which it impacts the future.

</div>

Anyways here's some more words:

<iframe title="PDF" src="../../pdf_mwe/web0/viewer.html?file=../../posts/thoughts/src/images/pascal
.pdf" width="100%" height="700px" ></iframe>
@importpdf: images/pascal

