\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\{#1\}}
\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\{#1 \mid #2\}}
\newcommand{\im}{\mathrm{im}}

\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}



> Is it ethical to spend money on personal luxuries or things you
find meaningful and important when this money could be repurposed
to promote health and even save lives? I'm not totally sure, but
must decide anyways. Alas, such is life. 
Anyways I wrote an essay about the question for my philosophy
class, and by popular demand am posting it here.
Interested to hear people's opinions, to what extent you disagree
or agree, or if you have any other interesting arguments.


> "Meet Laura. Laura is a 25-year-old American professional living a relatively ordinary, comfortable life. Laura spends her disposable income on projects and pursuits she finds valuable, meaningful and fun -- video-games, nice haircuts, potted plants, tasty food and drink, and toys for her dog. She donates \$10 a month to support a YouTuber who makes enjoyable, educational videos, and \$5 a month to her local art museum. Peter Singer argues that Laura is doing something seriously morally wrong: she is morally obligated to give large quantities of her wealth to life-saving charities, but she is failing to do so. Reconstruct Singer's argument and describe what you take to be the best objection to it. Does it defeat his argument?"

# Introduction
In "Famine, Affluence, and Morality" Peter Singer argues that 
widely-accepted Western moral standards are deeply wrong about
how we should treat strangers. In particular, Singer
argues that it is seriously morally wrong for Laura to spend
money on luxuries when this same money could be used to save
lives.

I will argue that Laura's actions are not morally wrong because 
Laura has a strongly partial obligation to imbue her own life
with meaning, which means that in some cases "donating to
charity" and "spending money in ways Laura finds personally
valuable" are of incomparable moral value.

# Exegesis
Before denying Singer's argument I reconstruct it.
I will frame the argument around the question: 

> "Is Laura morally obligated to donate large quantities of her
> wealth to life-saving charities?"

For concreteness I will use the "Against Malaria Foundation"
(**AMF**) as a stand-in for a highly effective life-saving charity.
The AMF provides Malaria prevention nets for \$5, saving one life
per \$5500 on average according to third-party statistics
provided GiveWell.

Singer's argument is as follows:

> P1) "Suffering and death from lack of food, shelter, and medical care are bad."(231)\
> P2) "If it is in our power to prevent something bad from
happening, without thereby sacrificing anything of comparable
moral importance, we ought, morally, to do it."(231)\
> P3) Laura could prevent a substantial amount of suffering by
donating to the AMF instead of indulging in luxuries like nice
haircuts and potted plants.\
> P4) Laura preventing children from contracting Malaria is more
morally significant than Laura having money to spend on
luxuries.\
> C) Laura should donate to the AMF rather than purchasing 
personal luxuries.

In fact, Singer claims that Laura should donate money until
donating more would substantially lessen her quality of living,
or perhaps even further until when donating any more would result
in her suffering exceeding the suffering that she abates by
donating to the AMF.

I believe that Singer's argument is valid. I will challenge the
validity of P4. 
Singer explains his premises as follows:

> P1) Singer takes P1 for granted, as do I. \
> P2) Singer motivates P2 with a story: Imagine that you
encounter a child drowning in a pond. Singer asserts that you are
morally obligated to save the child, even if it means getting
your clothes dirty, because this consequence is morally insignificant
compared to the value of the child's life.
Part of the subtlety of P2 is that it is supposed to apply
regardless of where the bad event in question happens, or whether
we know the affected party. 
Singer justifies these aspects of P2 by asserting that a life on
the other side of the world is still highly valuable, even if
they are a stranger to you.
Singer also considers an important variation of the pond case
where there are multiple people present around the pond. This
illustrates that even if there are other people in a position
to aid the drowning child we are still morally obligated to save the child.\
> P3) P3 is a fact, based on the statistics of the AMF.\
> P4) Singer advocates for P4 with the argument that human lives are
more morally important than the luxuries that compose Laura's comfortable life.

Singer claims the surprising nature of his conclusion is a result
of social norms and evolutionary pressures rather than any moral
reality.

# Assessment

I now argue that Singer's P4 is false. Initially this might sound
selfish and callous: can we really say that Laura's comfortable
lifestyle is more morally important than preventing the illness
and potential death of children? This is not my claim. The health
and lives of these children are highly morally significant. It is
certainly good for Laura to donate to the AMF. However, the
quality of Laura's life is also important. Let **MAL** denote the
action "donating money to the AMF" and let **PER** denote the action
"using money in personally meaningful ways." I claim: 

(**X**) MAL and PER are not morally comparable. That is, it is not
wrong for Laura to PER rather than to MAL.

Before I explain my reasoning for X I must clarify the scope of
X. X does not mean that Laura has no moral obligation to help
people who have high chance of suffering from Malaria.
It will be consistent with my argument that Laura should donate
some substantial portion of her wealth to organizations focused
on reducing suffering in the world. My argument is only that it
is not wrong for Laura to PER, even if the money she spends on
herself is not necessary for her health or survival and could be
repurposed to increase the health of others via, e.g., MAL.
In fact, I believe it is likely morally reprehensible for Laura
to waste her money on pursuits that she doesn't find meaningful,
but this is not the focus of my essay.

#### Defining morality
Now I make my argument for X. To understand what X means, we must
first establish what it means for an action to be "morally good".
Then we must explain why some actions are better than others, and
why some pairs of actions are have incomparable goodness.

The utilitarian conception of moral-goodness is roughly 

> The moral-goodness of an action can be measured by the extent
to which this action promotes some objective such
as happiness.

In contrast, a virtue ethics conception of moral-goodness has a
more personal perspective.
For the virtue ethicist, *virtue* is a fundamental object that
cannot be defined in consequentialist terms. Virtues are ideals
like honesty or generosity, which to a virtue ethicist are
intrinsically valuable. By contrast, a utilitarian might say
honesty is valuable because it avoids the chance that you are
caught in a lie, and they might say that generosity is valuable
in-so-far as is increases the happiness of others.
Thus, from the perspective of virtue ethics we can only assign
morality to an action within the greater context of the reasons
behind the action. A virtue ethics definition of morality is

> An action is morally good if you perform it for virtuous reasons. 

There are a vast number of arguments for and against both the
utilitarian and the virtue ethics conceptions of morality. 
For instance, sometimes the results of our actions seem
important: running a red light and accidentally killing someone
seems worse than running a red light and not killing anyone.
However, sometimes the intentions of our actions seem quite
important: an attempted murder still seems quite bad, even if it
does not succeed. 

In this paper I accept the virtue ethics perspective as generally
correct and argue that Singer's conclusion is invalid under a
virtue ethics conception of morality. 

#### Comparing morality
Using this definition of morality we can now compare the moral
goodness of actions. Many actions are morally comparable, for example:

> Ex1) If charity A can inoculate more children against malaria
> per dollar than charity B, then, ceteris paribus, it is morally
> better to donate to charity A than to charity B. 

Without more data the only virtue at play in Ex1 is rationality,
which picks out donating more efficiently as a good.
There are also many cases where two actions are of
incomparable goodness. For example,

> Ex2) Your best friend and your brother are both dying of a
poison, and you have a single antidote. It is morally gray who it
is better to save.

Note that saying that two actions are morally incomparable is
quite distinct from saying they are of equal
goodness. If two actions are equally good, then small
fluctuations will cause one to become better than the other.
But this is not the case in Ex2: if you learned that your best
friend was planning on donating \$10 to charity tomorrow if he
didn't die today this would not instantly sway you towards saving
your friend being the obvious choice.

#### Comparing PER and MAL
To show that PER and MAL are morally incomparable, I first 
use a more extreme example:

> Ex3) Imagine you could sacrifice yourself to save 2 children
on the opposite side of the world. Is it morally permissible not to?

This situation seems morally ambiguous, i.e, arguably neither
choice is wrong. Virtue ethics would laud self-sacrifice out of
love for these children as a good action. But there are also
virtuous reasons for choosing self-preservation. Some possible
such reasons include finding your own life beautiful, a desire
and determination to strive for dreams, and a sense of loyalty and
responsibility for the people close to you.

Our intuition in Ex3 may be clouded by an inclination to label
the person that preserves their own life as selfish. The
following example makes the partiality of morality in virtue
ethics more obvious:

> Ex4) Imagine you had to choose between saving your daughter or
saving two strangers. Is it wrong to save your daughter?

Here virtue ethics likely rules that it is wrong not to save your
daughter. A decision to save your daughter would be based on
love, protectiveness. A decision to save the two strangers would
be based on abstract utility calculations, which it seems
dishonest to claim are an equally virtuous reason as the reasons
for saving your daughter.

Now, I will extend Ex3 to my claim X (that MAL and PER are
morally incomparable). My argument is as follows:

> P1) Ex3 is morally gray.\
> P2) The choice between MAL and PER shares the same essential
moral characteristics as the choice in Ex3. \
> C) X

I have argued for P1 above. P2 is more controversial: in Ex3 we
are weighing Laura's life against other lives, whereas
superficially in X we are weighing Laura's comfort against other
lives.

Now I argue for P2.
Imagine Laura really did eschew all personal luxuries. 
Instead of spending time with friends or her dogs or on her
projects, she spent all of her time on making money to donate to
charity. From the lens of virtue ethics Laura is making a 
mistake by avoiding all the various ways which she could develop
virtue by focusing on her own life. Although Laura keeps living,
she has arguably sacrificed her life in a similar manner to the
person of Ex3 who literally stopped living.
Laura's personal pursuit of meaning is an essential part of her
living a good life and it would be bad for her to neglect this.

#### An objection
To conclude I address what I find to be the most compelling
objection to my argument.

OBJ) We routinely engage in motivated reasoning, whereby we
can alter our perceptions of morality. This casts doubt on the
claim that actions which we take for "virtuous reasons" are truly
morally good. In other words, maybe Laura has merely tricked
herself into believing that MAL is not strictly more morally
important than PER.

This objection is concerning but ultimately fails. 
Firstly, virtue ethics measures morality based on our action
reasons for actions, not merely our purported reasons.
This rules out acting morally in the case where one has shallowly
tricked themselves into thinking an action is moral.
However, it is plausible that overtime we can thoroughly convince
ourselves of some actions moral goodness.
My answer to this is that willfully altering your beliefs out of
self-interest is extremely morally wrong. Furthermore, your choice to
alter your moral beliefs would implicitly be a part of any choice
that you made based on these altered moral perceptions. Thus, the
immoral motivation for the self-deception translates into an
immoral reason behind the later action, despite your changed
perceptions.

# Conclusion
I have argued it is not morally wrong for Laura to spend money in
personally meaningful ways even when this same money could be
donated to life-saving charities. 
My argument is that it is very morally good for Laura to imbue
her own life with meaning, rendering the decision between
spending on herself and donating to life-saving charities
morally gray.

# Bibliography

- Singer "Famine, Affluence, and Morality"
- "Against Malaria Foundation" https://www.againstmalaria.com/
- GiveWell https://www.againstmalaria.com/WhatPeopleSay.aspx


