\renewcommand{\O}{\mathcal{O}}
\newcommand{\tilo}{\widetilde{\O}}
\newcommand{\nil}{\varnothing}
\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}
\newcommand{\legendre}[2]{\genfrac{(}{)}{}{}{#1}{#2}}
\newcommand{\EXP}{\mathsf{EXP}}
\newcommand{\PSPACE}{\mathsf{PSPACE}}
\newcommand{\NEXP}{\mathsf{NEXP}}
\newcommand{\PP}{\mathsf{P}}
\newcommand{\NP}{\mathsf{NP}}
\newcommand{\erdos}{Erd\H{o}s}
\newcommand{\pmo}{\set{-1,1}}
\newcommand{\zo}{\set{0,1}}


\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


Hilbert symbol:
$(a,b)=1$ if  $z^2-ax^2-by^2=0$ has a non-trivial solution and $-1$ else.

Norm map:
$N_{K/F}(\alpha)$ is the determinant of the map $x\mapsto \alpha
x$.
For example, 
If $K$ is an extension of $F$ by adjoining $\sqrt{\beta}$ then
$N(z+\sqrt{\beta}y) = z^2-\beta y^2.$

<div class="prop envbox">**Proposition.**
$(a,b)=1$ iff $a\in Nk[\sqrt{b}]^{*}$
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
If $b$ is a square this is clear. 
If $b$ is a non-square then it is also true.
</div>

<div class="prop envbox">**Proposition.**
The hilbert symbol satisfies:
$(a,b)=(b,a)$,
$$(a,c^2)=(a,-a) = (a,1-a) = 1,$$
$$(a,b) =1 \implies (aa',b)=(a',b),$$
$$(a,b)=(a,-ab) = (a, (1-a)b).$$
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
The implication $(a,b)=1\implies (aa',b)=(a',b)$ seems
interesting. 
It's true because we characterized  $\setof{x}{(x,b)=1}$ as $Nk[\sqrt{b}]^{*}$.
So, because $a\in Nk[\sqrt{b}]^{*}$ we have $aa'\in
Nk[\sqrt{b}]^{*} \iff a'\in Nk[\sqrt{b}]^{*}$.
</div>

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
$(aa',b)=(a,b)(a',b).$
</div>

Hilbert symbol is somehow related to legendre symbol.

# main theorem: some relationship between hilbert symbol and legendre symbol

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
In reals this is easy to compute. 
As always there is something different in the case that $p=2$.
We just state for odd $p$.

Write $a=p^{\alpha}u, b = p^{\beta}v.$
In the $p$-adics we have $(a,b) = (-1)^{\alpha \beta \eps(p)}
\legendre{u}{p}^{\beta} \legendre{v}{p}^{\alpha}$

where $\eps(u) =  \frac{u-1}{2}\mod 2$, 
and where legendre symbol of element of $\Z_p^{*}$ actually means
first take the element's reduction modulo $p$ and then take the
legendre symbol.
</div>

<div class="cor envbox">**Corollary.**
If $b$ is not a square then group $Nk_b^{*}$ is a subgroup of
index $2$ in $K^{*}$.
</div>

Recall: a point in $\Z_p^{m}$ is primitive if one of the $x_i$'s
in the vector is invertable (not div by $p$).

recall lemma: 
it you have non-trivial zero then you can find primitive zero.

now we have:
<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Let $v\in U$.
if $z^2-px^2-vy^2=0$ has nontrivial solution in $\Q_p$ then it
has one with $z,y\in U, x\in \Z_p$.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
First get a primitive zero. Then take stuff mod p it can't work
unless $z,y$ are units.

The proof is kind of interesting.
suppose our solution didn't have $y,z$ being units. Then at least one of
them is div by $p$. But taking reduction $\mod p$ we find that
both must be $0$. But then  $px^2\equiv  0 \mod p^2$ so $x,y,z$
all div by $p$ contradicting the primitiveness of the zero.
</div>

Now we prove the theorem

<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Split to three cases.
The reason there are only three cases is by symmetry and the fact
that multiplying stuff by squares doesn't change the hilbert
symbol.

**Case 1:** $\alpha =\beta = 0$.
Then we want to prove $(u,v) = 1$.
The equation $z^2-ux^2-vy^2 = 0$ is a quadratic form in 3 vars so
has a solution modulo $p$. Furthermore, the discriminant of the
quadratic form  is a $p$-adic unit: $uv$. Thus by that other
lemma "newton's method" this lifts to a $p$-adic solution.

**Case 2:** $\alpha =0, \beta = 1$.
Here the claim is 
$$ (pu,v) = \legendre{v}{p} $$
Using a non-trivial fact from earlier in this blog post (the
first two propositions) we have in this case that $(pu,v)=(p,v)$.
If $v$ is a square then both $(p,v)$ and $\legendre{v}{p}$ are $1$ clearly.
Else, if $v$ is not a square then we had this theorem earlier
that said $p^{n}u$ is a square iff $n$ is even and $u\mod p$ is a
square in $\F_p$.
So then $\legendre{v}{p} = -1$.

Now using that lemma from earlier that somewhat conspicuously had
a $z^2-px^2-vy^2=0$ going on in it, an indication that it would
be useful for understanding $(v,p)$, we see that if  $(v,p)\neq
-1$ then we would get units $z,y$, and p-adic integer $x$ such that $z^2-px^2-vy^2=0$.
But this is ridiculous because then $v \equiv (zy^{-1})^2 \mod
p$, while we know $v$ is not a square.

**Case 3:** $\alpha =\beta = 1$.

We use another interesting formula, $(a,b)=(a,-ab)$ to reduce
this to case 2.

And the bilinearity thing follows from the fact that the legendre
symbols and other stuff in our formula is bilinear.

</div>

# section 2

We use $\Q_\infty$ to denote $\R$.
We count $\infty$ as a prime number.
Let $(a,b)_p$ be the hilbert symbol in $\Q_p$.

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
$(a,b)_p = 1$ for all but finitely many $p$ and also 
$$ \prod_p (a,b)_p =1$$ 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**

Suffices to consider case that $a,b$ are $-1$ or primes. Due to
bilinearity.

- Case 1: $a=-1,b=-1$. I.e., $x^2+y^2+z^2=0.$
- We have $(-1,-1)_\infty = (-1,-1)_2  = -1$ (clear in  $\R$,
    look at it $\mod 4$ to deduce the thing about $\Q_2$).
- and,  $(-1,-1)_p = 1$ for  $p\neq 2$. This is because the
    quadratic form $x^2+y^2+z^2$ has  a non-trivial solution
    modulo p by that one lemma that we really like, and then that
    solution lifts to a p-adic solution because you can't have
    all the partial derivatives be zero at the solution: the
    derivative is just $2(x+y+z)$.

- Case 2: $a=-1, b=2$
- that is, $x^2+y^2-2z^2 =0$

Then $(-1,2)_2 = 1$. 
You can see this by one of the op quadratic form lemmas. 
For instance $(1,1,1)$ is a solution modulo  $8$, and the matrix
defining the quadratic form has non-zero determinant modulo $4$.

And clearly $(-1,2)_p = 1$: op quadratic form stuff.

- Case 3: $a=-1, b=p\neq 2$.

- Case 4:
- this is basically just quadratic reciprocity

</div>

# Existence of rationals with given hilbert symbols

Now the section I present for the class!

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Let $a_i$ be a *finite* fam of elts in $\Q^{*}$ and let $\eps_{i,p}$ be a
fam of signs $\pm 1$.

Suppose that there was $x\in \Q^{*}$ such that
$$ (a_i, x)_v = \eps_{i,v} $$ 
for all $i,v$.

By the theorem above, we know that in order for this to possibly
happen we need the following conditions:

1. Almost all $\eps_{i,v}$ are  $1$.
2. For all $i$ we have $\prod \eps_{i,v} = 1$.
3. For all $v\in V$ there exists $x_v\in \Q_v^{*}$ such that
   $(a_i, x_v)_v = \eps_{i,v}$ for all $i$.

It turns out these are sufficient as well.
</div>
<div class="rmk envbox">**Remark.**
The reason it's interesting to have $I$ is that we are finding a
single $x$ that works for all of them.
</div>

We need some lemmas.

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Chinese remainder theorem:

Let $m_1,\ldots,  m_n$ be rel prime. 
Then for any set of $a_i$'s there is a solution to the
simultaneous set of equations
$$ a\equiv a_i \mod m_i. $$ 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
$\setof{m_1z\bmod m_2}{z\in \Z} = \Z/m_2\Z.$ 
Then do induction.
</div>

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Approximation theorem
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Let $S$ be a finite subset of $V=\text{primes}\cup  \infty$.
The image of $\Q$ in $\prod_{v\in S} \Q_v$ is dense in the product
topology.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Assume wlog that $\infty\in S$.
Fix $\eps>0$ and $x_\infty, x_1,x_2,\ldots, x_n  \in \prod \Q_v$.
Our goal is to find $x\in \Q$ such that $|x-x_v|_v < \eps$ for
each $v\in S$.

It's nicer to work with $x_1,\ldots, x_n$ being $p$-adic
integers. We can accomplish this by scaling them by a large
number integer. 
This isn't gonna make it harder to get a $\Q$-approximation to
them.
Fix $k\in \N$ such that $2^{-k}<\eps$.
Now, we can solve by CRT the simultaneous equations $z \equiv x_i
\mod p_i^{k}$. Let $z_0$ be the solution.
This is a good approx to the p-adic dudes but a lousy approx to
the real dude.

Let $q\perp p_i$ for all $i$.
Then we take
$x = z_0+\frac{a}{q^m}p_1^{k}\cdots p_n^{k}$ 
where $m$ is large enough that $\frac{1}{q^{m}}<\eps$.
This is still a great p-adic approx to all the dudes. But now it
is also a good real approx to the dudes, for appropriate choice
of $a$.

</div>

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Dirichlet's Theorem.
Let $a\perp m$. Then there are infinitely many primes in the AP
$a+m\Z$.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Dirichlet characters :O
</div>

Finally, proof of the theorem 
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
We start by multiplying the $a_i$'s by the square of integers to
make the $a_i$'s into integers.
This is wlog because square of integer doesn't impact hilbert
symbol.

Let $S$ be $2,\infty, $ and the prime factors of the $a_i$'s.
Let $T$ be the set of $v\in V$ such that for some $i$ we have
$\eps_{i,v} = -1.$
Note that these sets are finite by assumption.

**Case 1:**
$S \cap T = \nil$.

Define $a = \prod_{t\in T \setminus \infty} t$.
Define $m = 8 \prod_{s\in S\setminus \set{2,\infty}} s.$

We have $a\perp m$.

Let $p$ be a prime not contained in $S\cup T$; exists by
Dirichlet's theorem.

Claim: $x=ap$ has the desired property!
We do some QRrocity and use the product formula for the Hilbert
Symbol.

- Take $v\in S$. We must check $(a_i, x)_v = 1$.
- First, $(a_i, x)_\infty  = 1$: can take square-roots because
    $x>0$.

**TODO**

</div>

