\renewcommand{\O}{\mathcal{O}}
\newcommand{\tilo}{\widetilde{\O}}
\newcommand{\nil}{\varnothing}
\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}
\newcommand{\legendre}[2]{\genfrac{(}{)}{}{}{#1}{#2}}
\newcommand{\EXP}{\mathsf{EXP}}
\newcommand{\PSPACE}{\mathsf{PSPACE}}
\newcommand{\NEXP}{\mathsf{NEXP}}
\newcommand{\PP}{\mathsf{P}}
\newcommand{\NP}{\mathsf{NP}}
\newcommand{\erdos}{Erd\H{o}s}
\newcommand{\pmo}{\set{-1,1}}
\newcommand{\zo}{\set{0,1}}


\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


Throughout the post I use $(q\mid p)$ to denote the legendre
symbol bc I'm lazy.
Throughout the post $p,q$ are distinct odd primes.

I've seen quite a few proofs of QRLaw.
According to wikipedia there are hundreds. I don't know how
credible that is, but here's some ones I've seen:

- Geometric proof due to Einstein: 
  - $$(q\mid p) = (-1)^{\sum_{u=1}^{(p-1)/2}\floor{2qu/p}}.$$
  - $\sum_{u=1}^{(p-1)/2}\floor{2qu/p}$ is counting the number of
      lattice points in a certain triangle. You can do some
      symmetry and stuff.
- Gauss sums: you "guess" a square root in the algebraic closure in terms of a gauss sum. 
  - you then analyze when this square root is actually contained in the right field not just the algebraic closure.
- Zolotarev's lemma: this post

This proof is rather neat. I like it because we get to use
permutations, which are one of my favorite objects.

[my source](https://planetmath.org/zolotarevslemma)

First, recall an important combinatorial property of
permutations: the signature of a permutation is the number of
inversions -- $i,j$ with  $i<j, \pi_i > \pi_j$ -- in it mod 2.
Equivalently, it is the number of transpositions to make the
permutation.

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
A cycle of length $k$ has signature $(-1)^{k-1}$.
</div>

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Let $\pi_m$ be the map  $x\mapsto mx \mod p.$
Then  $(m\mid p) = \sgn(\pi_m)$.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Recall that $a^{(p-1)/2} = 1$ iff QR.

Notice that $\pi_m$ consists of $(p-1)/\text{ord}_p(m)$ many cycles,
all of length  $\text{ord}_p(m)$.
So you can just compute the signature and check that it matches
the legendre symbol.
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
QR LAW:

$$ (p\mid q) = (q\mid p) \cdot (-1)^{\binom{p}{2}\binom{q}{2}}. $$ 

</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**

Let $\pi: \Z_{pq}\to \Z_p \times Z_q$ be the canonical
isomorphism between these rings. Namely,  $aq+bp \mapsto (a,b)$.
Let  $\alpha,\beta$ be permutations of  $\Z_p \times \Z_q$
defined as
 $$ \alpha(x,y) = qx+y,y $$
 $$ \beta(x,y) = x, x+py. $$
Define a permutation $\lambda$ on $\Z_{pq}$ as  $\lambda(x+qy) =
px+y$.

Observe that 

 $$ \pi \lambda \pi^{-1} \alpha = \beta. $$ 

 by the lemma above $\sgn(\alpha) = (q\mid p)$ and  $\sgn(\beta)
 = (p\mid q)$.

 By counting inversions in  $\lambda$ we see that  $\sgn(\lambda) = (-1)^{\binom{p}{2}\binom{q}{2}}$.

</div>
