\renewcommand{\O}{\mathcal{O}}
\newcommand{\tilo}{\widetilde{\O}}
\newcommand{\nil}{\varnothing}
\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}
\newcommand{\legendre}[2]{\genfrac{(}{)}{}{}{#1}{#2}}
\newcommand{\EXP}{\mathsf{EXP}}
\newcommand{\PSPACE}{\mathsf{PSPACE}}
\newcommand{\NEXP}{\mathsf{NEXP}}
\newcommand{\PP}{\mathsf{P}}
\newcommand{\NP}{\mathsf{NP}}
\newcommand{\erdos}{Erd\H{o}s}
\newcommand{\pmo}{\set{-1,1}}
\newcommand{\zo}{\set{0,1}}


\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


[Awesome Lecture notes](https://people.math.harvard.edu/~elkies/M229.22/index.html)

# introducing euler product / zeta function

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
The Euler Product:
The birth of AnalyticNT.
For all $s\in \C$ with  $\Re[s]>1$ we have
$$\zeta(s) =  \sum_{n=1}^{\infty} n^{-s} = \prod_p \frac{1}{1-p^{-s}}. $$ 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Thus sum on the left converges absolutely, so you can re-arrange
terms however you want.

If we expand out the sum 
$$ \prod_p \sum_{i=1}^{\infty} p^{-i} $$ 
We get a terms $n^{-s}$ for every $n\in \N$.

This is by the fundamental theorem of numbers: you can decompose
them into prime factors.
</div>

<div class="prop envbox">**Proposition.**
An interesting consequence of this Euler Product thing is that
the prime counting function $\pi$ (how many primes are there up
to a certain point) satisfies
$\pi(n) > \Omega(n^{1-\eps})$ for any $\eps>0$.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Suppose that $\pi(n) \le O(n^{1-\eps})$.
Fix $s = 1-\eps/2$.

Fix some $n_0$ and let $A$ denote the set of primes between
$n_0,2n_0$.
Then, 
$$ \prod_{p\in A} \frac{1}{1-p^{-s}} \approx (1+\frac{1}{n_0^{1-\eps/2}})^{n_0^{1-\eps/2-\eps/2}} \approx e^{n_0^{-\eps/2}}. $$ 

So, 
$$ \prod_p \frac{1}{1-p^{-s}} \approx \exp\left(\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} (2^{-\eps})^{n}\right) <\infty.$$ 
But this is ridiculuous because $\zeta(1-\eps/2) = \infty$.

</div>

<div class="prop envbox">**Proposition.**
A sometimes useful estimate:
$$ \frac{1}{s-1} \le \zeta(s) \le \frac{1}{s-1}+1.$$ 

Follows from basic calculus
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
For any $s\in (1,2)$,
$$ \left|\sum_{p} p^{-s} - \log \frac{1}{s-1}\right| \le O(1). $$ 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
By taylor series / desmos:
$$ \log\zeta(s) = \sum_p -\log(1-p^{-s}) \approx \sum_p p^{-s}. $$ 

From earlier (calculus):
$$ \log\zeta(s) \in ( \frac{1}{s-1}, \frac{1}{s-1} + 10). $$ 
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
$$ \sum_p p^{-s} =  s\int_1^{\infty} \pi(y) y^{-s-1} dy. $$ 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**

Well, $p^{-s} = s\int_p^{\infty}y^{-s-1}dy.$ 
If you do 
$$ \sum_p  \int_p^{\infty} y^{-s-1}$$ 
you indeed pick up $\pi(y)$ terms $y^{-s-1}$.

This is sometimes called the mellin transform. It's maybe a sort
of laplace transform?
</div>

<div class="prop envbox">**Proposition.**
Meme:
The fact that $\zeta(2)= \pi^2/6\notin \Q$ implies that there are
infinitely many primes.

In fact there are some theorems that show that $\pi$ is "very
far from rational". But these still only allow you to prove
really weak things like $\pi(n) > \log\log n$.
</div>

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
Problem 7 on the first pset is to get some understanding of $\phi(n)$. I think I should do this one before trying the next two.
</div>

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
There are $n/\zeta(2) + O(\sqrt{n})$ squarefree numbers in $[n]$.

Hmm, so I kinda get that approximately the pr of a number being
square free is kinda like 

$$ \prod_p \left(1-\frac{1}{p^2}\right) = \frac{1}{\zeta(2)}. $$ 
But I really am not yet sure how to reason about the error terms.

</div>

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
There are $n^2/\zeta(2) + O(n\log n)$ ordered pairs of relatively
prime numbers in $[n]^2$.
</div>

# dirichlet characters

Towards Dirichlet's theorem.

Define $\chi_4(x)$ as $+1$ if $x\equiv 1\mod 4$, $-1$ if $x\equiv
-1 \mod 4$ and $0$ else.

Then we define an $L$-series.
$$ L(s, \chi_4) = \sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \chi_4(n) n^{-s}. $$ 

We get another product formula.

Let $\pi(x) = \sum_{p\le x}\chi_4(p)$.

We can show:
For all $s\in (1,2)$,
$$ s\int_1^{\infty} \pi(y, \chi_4) y^{-1-s}dy = O(1) $$ 

This allows us to conclude that there are infinitely many primes
congruent to both $1 \mod 4$ and $-1 \mod 4$. It also shows
the "logarithmic density" of $1\mod  4$ primes is $1/2$.
Logarithmic density is somehthing which is apparently not
necessarily equivalent to actual density. not writing it down.

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
Fix positive integer $q$.
**Dirichlet character** modulo $q$ is a function $\chi:\Z\to \C$
that is 

-  $q$-periodic: $n\equiv n' \mod q \implies \chi(n)=\chi(n')$ 
- For $n\in \Z$,  $\chi(n)= 0 \iff n\not\perp q$.
-  multiplicative: $\chi(mn)=\chi(m)\chi(n)$ for all integers
    $m,n$


Associated Dirichlet $L$-series:
For $s>1$
$$ L(s, \chi) = \sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \chi(n)n^{-s} = \prod_p \frac{1}{1-\chi(p)p^{-s}}. $$ 
</div>


<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
The characters mod $q$ form a group under pointwise
multiplication with identity the trivial character $\chi_0$ and
$\chi^{-1}= \overline{\chi}.$

This group is the **Pontrjagin dual** of $(\Z/q\Z)^{*}$.
It is homomorphisms to the unit circle extended by zero lifted to
Z. Apparently this means it is a discrete fourier transform or
something.
</div>

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
For a finite abelian group its Pontrjagin dual is homomorhpisms
to unit circle in $\C$.
</div>

at this point it got a bit facny and we actually proved
dirichlet's theorem afaict.
probably a story for a different day though.

# von Mangoldt

$$\nu_p(x!) = \sum_{k\ge 1} \floor{x/p^{k}}.$$ 
Let $\Lambda(n)$ be $\log p$ if $n$ is a power of prime $p$, and
$0$ if $n$ is not a prime power.
Then we have
$$ x! = \prod_p p^{\nu_p(x!)} $$ 
$$ \log x! = \sum_{n\ge 1} \floor{x/n} \Lambda(n) $$ 

$$ \psi(x) = \sum_{n\in [x]} \Lambda(n).$$ 

We can find some stuff out about $\Lambda$

**TODO: write more here.**

# entering complex analysis land

It seems understandable, but it will definitely take a bit of
reminding myself how contour integrals work. 

