\renewcommand{\O}{\mathcal{O}}
\newcommand{\tilo}{\widetilde{\O}}
\newcommand{\nil}{\varnothing}
\newcommand{\one}{\mathbb{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}
\newcommand{\legendre}[2]{\genfrac{(}{)}{}{}{#1}{#2}}
\newcommand{\EXP}{\mathsf{EXP}}
\newcommand{\PSPACE}{\mathsf{PSPACE}}
\newcommand{\NEXP}{\mathsf{NEXP}}
\newcommand{\PP}{\mathsf{P}}
\newcommand{\NP}{\mathsf{NP}}
\newcommand{\erdos}{Erd\H{o}s}
\newcommand{\pmo}{\set{-1,1}}
\newcommand{\zo}{\set{0,1}}


\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}

A major topic in additive number theory is the following
question: given a set $A\subseteq \N$, can every sufficiently
large positive integer be expressed as the sum of a bounded
number of elements of $A$? If so, in how many ways can number $n$
be represented. 
We say that the set $A$ is an **additive basis** of order $h$ if
every positive integer can be written as the sum of at most $h$
elements from $A$.

In this chapter of the book I'm reading we prove some really neat
inequalities that will be helpful in doing circle method stuff.
As you probably know, I kind of self-discovered "the circle
method" in some form during my
[hashing](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13016.pdf) project. 
I'm moderately hopeful that seeing some of this stuff in more
detail / seeing the books take on it will be helpful for hashing.
In any case it sounds rather neat.

# definitions
Throughout the post we use $||\alpha||$  to denote the distance
from real $\alpha$ to the nearest integer.
We also use $e(t)$ to denote  $\exp(2\pi i t)$.

# some preperatory lemmas

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
$$ \sum_{n=N_1}^{N_2} e(\alpha n)  \le \O(N_2-N_1, ||\alpha||^{-1}).$$ 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Think about $e(\alpha n)$ as going around the circle at stride
$||\alpha||^{-1}$. Then this is clear.
Ofc if $||\alpha||^{-1}$ it is sometimes more productive to just
say look there are only $N_2-N_1$ total terms in my sum.
</div>

We say $\alpha\in\R$ is **Farey-q-adjacent** if $\alpha$ is
distance at most $1/q^2$ away from some reduced fraction of
denominator $q$.

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Suppose $\alpha$ is Farey-q-adjacent. Then 
$$ \sum_{r=1}^{q/2}\frac{1}{||\alpha r||} \le \O(q\log q). $$ 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
How to think about this:
you got a bunch of points they all be really close to the $1/q$
fractions.
So it makes a lotta sense that we get basically 

$$ \sum_{s=1}^{q/2} \frac{}{s/q} $$ 
which is just what we wanted.

Anyways now we be more formal a bit

Ok so the first thing that's worth being rather worried about is,
are we ever dividing by zero?

Luckily you can show that this doesn't happen. In fact
$$ ||\alpha r|| \ge 1/(2q) $$  for all $r\in [q/2]$.
</div>

Similar vibes lemma:

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Suppose $\alpha$ is Farey-q-adjacent. Then for any integer $h$
$$ \sum_{r=1}^{q}\min(V, \frac{1}{||\alpha (hq+r)||} \le \O(V+ q\log q). $$ 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Same vibes as previous lemma except I guess we might need to
take a $V$ hit  $\O(1)$ times.
</div>


<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Let $\alpha$ be Farey-q-adjacent.
Then, 
$$ \sum_{k=1}^{U} \min(n/k, 1/||\alpha k||) \le \O( (n/q+U+q)(\log 2qU) ). $$ 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
afaict you just split up the sum and apply the above lemmas
</div>

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Suppose $\alpha$ is Farey-q-adjacent. Then 
$$ \sum_{r=1}^{U}\min(n, \frac{1}{||\alpha r||}) \le \O( (q+U+n+\frac{Un}{q})\max(1,\log q)). $$ 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Seems like the vibes are just to split up the sum based on values
of $r$ and win.
</div>

# now we do the important lemmas

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Let $$S(f) = \sum_{n=N_1}^{N_2} e(f(n)).$$ 
Then 
$$ |S(f)|^2 = \sum_{|d|<N} \sum_{n\in I(d)} e(\Delta_d(f)(n)) $$ 

discrete derivative interval.

We also need some version of this for 
$$ |S(f)|^{2^{\ell}} $$ 
It's super gross for some reason.
looks like they just Cauchy Shwarz the ez version
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
WEYL's INEQUALITY!

Let $f(x) = \alpha x^{k}+\cdots$ be a degree $k$ polynomial. Suppose that $\alpha$ is
Farey-q-adjacent. Let $S(f)  = \sum_{n\in [N]} e(f(n)).$ 
Let $K  = 2^{k-1}$ and $\epsilon>0$.
Then 
$$ S(f)\le \O( N^{1+\eps} (N^{-1}+q^{-1}+N^{-k}q)^{1/K} ). $$ 
</div>
weyl differencing

<div class="cor envbox">**Corollary.**
For each $k\ge 2$ there exists $\delta>0$ such that 
$\sqrt{N}\le q \le N^{k-1/2}.$
$$ \sum_{n=1}^{N} e(an^{k}/q) \le \O(N^{1-\delta}) $$ 
</div>


<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Hua's Lemma

Let 
$$ T(\alpha)  = \sum_{n\in[N]} e(\alpha n^{k}).$$
Then
$$ \int_0^{1} |T(\alpha)|^{2^{k}} d\alpha \le O(N^{2^{k}-k+\eps}).$$ 
</div>

anyways, it's kind of hard to see why these are useful until we
actually apply it i guess. 

Also I didn't realize but hardy-littlewood or whatever actually
have an asymptotic formula for number of ways to write a number
as sum of k-th powers. that's insane. 

also note to self should probably just try to go through the
theorem with some easy setting like $k=2$ in mind.


