\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


There are lot's of prime conjectures that are unsolved.
- Are there infinitely many primes of the form $n^{2}+1$?
- Are there infinitely many primes of the form $2^{n}-1$?
    (Mersenne primes)
- Are there infinitely many primes $p$ where $2p+1$ is also
    prime? (Sophie Germaine primes)

All of these are open questions.
But here's a solved question:

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Let $p$ be prime. There are infinitely many primes $q$ for which
$p\mid q-1$.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Oh actually the proof is kind of tricky. here goes.

Define the cylotomic polynomial
$$f_p(x) = 1+x+x^{2}+\cdots + x^{p-1}.$$

Observation 1:
$$f_p(pk) \perp pk(pk-1)$$
this is pretty clear.

Observation 2:
Say that prime $q\mid f_p(pk)$. 
Well, we know that $$q \mid (pk)^{p}-1.$$
Therefore the order $\mod q$ of  $pk$ satisfies $o_q(pk) \mid p$.
But the divisors of $p$ are $\set{1,p}$, and the order is not $1$.
Hence, 
$$o_q(pk) = p.$$
On the other hand, FLT says $o_q(pk) \mid \phi(q)=q-1$. 

Putting it all together gives $q\equiv 1 \mod p$.

Ok, so we're almost done. 
It will suffice to find an infinite set $k_1,k_2,k_3,\ldots$ such
that $f_p(pk_i)$ are all pairwise coprime.

One way of doing that is the following:
$$m_1=p, m_k=pf(m_1)f(m_2)f(m_3)\cdots f(m_{k-1}).$$
Then, $f(m_i)$ and  $f(m_j)$ have completely disjoint sets of
prime factors, and at least one of each of their prime factors is
one more than a multiple of  $p$ as desired.


</div>



