\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


Can't believe I don't have more NT blog posts smh. Plan to fix
this dirth of quality content.

Today, we discuss the following question:
<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
$$\lcm \binom{n}{0}, \binom{n}{1}, \binom{n}{2},\ldots, \binom{n}{n} = \frac{1}{n+1} \lcm(1,2,\ldots, n+1).$$
</div>
Credit to "problem's from the book" for this question.

So, ok let's do it

<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
We do it by $\nu_p$'ing.
First, notice that $\nu_p(\lcm(1,2,\ldots,n+1)) = \floor{ \log_p
n+1}.$ Ok, great.

Now, treat $n=a\cdot p^k-1$ for $a\perp p$ as a separate case.

For the binomial coefficients we have
$$\nu_p( (n+1)(n+0)(n-1)\cdots (n-i+1) ) - \nu_p(i!).$$
We can think of this like a game!
You get dropped into the natural numbers, and get to walk forward
$i$ steps. You collect $\nu_p(x)$ points for walking on tile $x$. 
How many points can you get compared to someone else who is
playing the same game?

Well, it turns out the following fact is useful for analyzing the
game:

$$\nu_p(w!) \le \nu_p((n+w)!) - \nu_p(n!).$$
In fact, this is an immediate consequence of the inequality:
$$\floor{x-y} \le \floor{x}-\floor{y}.$$
Because we use the formula:
$$\nu_p(n!) = \sum_{i\ge 1} \floor{n/p^i}.$$


So, now that we understand the game, how does the game help?
Let's call the players "top" and "bottom" for numerator and
denominator.
Well, then once top gets a good point thing, he resets to the
start basically, and doesn't get any further ahead, until bottom
also gets the good point thing that top got. So, top is only
ever ahead by at most once. And it will be ahead at least once
too because just think about it.

</div>


