\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\{#1\}}
\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\{#1 \mid #2\}}
\newcommand{\im}{\mathrm{im}}

\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}



We consider the product of prime numbers up to $n$.
<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
$$\prod_{p\le n}  p \le 4^{n-1}.$$
</div>
<div class="rmk envbox">**Remark.**
In fact, the real answer is closer to $e^{1.000028}$ or
something. 
See wikipedia page for Chebyshev prime function (which is the
$\ln$ of this function).
</div>

<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
proof of lemma is by induction.
We use the almost-central binomial coefficient:
$$\binom{2k+1}{k}\le 4^{k},$$
because note that 
$$\prod_{p\in (k,2k+1]} p \le \binom{2k+1}{k}.$$
That is, primes $p\in (k,2k+1]$ show up exactly once in
$\binom{2k+1}{k}$ because they can't be cancelled by the
denominator. Wow that's neat.
Anyways, then you do the induction and it works.

</div>


<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
There are at least $(\frac{2}{3}-o(1)) \frac{n}{\log n}$ primes
between $[n,2n]$ for large enough $n$.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Now we use central binomial coefficient for our bound **so cool**.
key observation 1:
$$\nu_p(\binom{2n}{n}) \le \log_p n$$
I have another blog post about this fact.
Key observation 2:
for $p\in (\frac{2n}{3}, n)$ 
$$\nu_p(\binom{2n}{n}) = 0.$$
Key observation 3:
For $p> \sqrt{2n}$
$$\nu_p(\binom{2n}{n}) \le 1.$$

Let $f(n)$ be the number of primes $p\in [n,2n]$.
We have the bound

$$\frac{4^{n}}{n} \le \binom{2n}{n} \le \prod_{p\le \sqrt{2n}}2n
\prod_{p\in (\sqrt{2n}, 2n / 3)} p \prod_{p\in [n,2n]}p$$

Using the lemma from the beginning of this blog post we get

$$\frac{4^{n}}{n} \le (2n)^{\sqrt{2n}} 4^{\frac{2n}{3}}
(2n)^{f(n)}.$$
Taking logs and stuff gives the desired bound.


</div>


