\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\{#1\}}
\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\{#1 \mid #2\}}
\newcommand{\im}{\mathrm{im}}

\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}



<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
**Minkowski's theorem:**
Let $S$ be a bounded convex centrally-symmetric body in $\R^n$ with volume
larger than $2^{n}$. 

Then $S$ contains a lattice point differnt from the origin.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Make a lattice of cubes of side length $2$ and consider $S$'s
intersection with these cubes.
Translate all the cubes into the origin's cube. There must be two
points $x,y$ that collide. Then $x-y \in 2\Z$ because the
translations of all the cubes are even integers.
$-y\in S$ becuase  $S$ is centrally-symmetric. 
But then by convexity $\frac{x-y}{2}$ is a point in $S$  and of
course it isn't $0$.
</div>

You can also do this for a parallelpiped spanned by some vectors.

This turns out to be really great for number theory. You 
define an appropriate lattice and an appropriate bounded convex
centrally-symmetric body and then you find a nice non-trivial point in your lattice. 
sorry I'm tired so no example tonight.

maybe next time.
