\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


GRH = Generalized Reiman Hypothesis. 

I've always kind of had the vibes that "assuming GRH, then any
reasonable randomness statement you could want to make about the primes is
true". 

It turns out GRH is a bit more modest then that, which maybe
highlights just how little we know about numbers. 

But anyways, I looked around at [SO](https://mathoverflow.net/questions/17209/consequences-of-the-riemann-hypothesis) and [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generalized_Riemann_hypothesis)
and will summarize what I feel seem like some important
consequences of GRH.

1. GRH implies that there is a generator for $\Z_p^{\times}$ of
   size at most $(\ln(p))^{6}$.

   Also that $\set{x< 2(\ln n)^{2}}$ generates $\Z_n^{\times}$.


2. GRH implies that prime gap is like $\sqrt{p}\log p$

note that [I think we already know](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_gap) this if you replace $\sqrt{p}$ with $p^{\frac{5}{8}}$
so this one feels less important

3. The number of primes in the arithmetic progression $a, a+d, a+2d, \ldots, $ (where  $a\perp d$) is like 
 $\frac{1}{\phi(d)} \frac{x}{\ln x} \pm \sqrt{x}$ 

 Furthermore, the first prime $\equiv a \mod n$ is of size at
 most  $O((n\log n)^{2})$

 note that we already know this for if you replace $n^{2}$ with
 likke $n^{6}$ so again, doesn't seem that pressing.


4. if you take a character sum over some interval, e.g., count
   the number of quadratic residues in some interval of length
   $N$ then we already know its like bounded by $\sqrt{p}\log p$
   but under GRH you can replace the log with loglog.
   Again, not super impressive. 


So in summary, I think (1) is the only one where assuming GRH
really gets you something rather extremely good. 
huh, that's really too bad. I wanted to prove hashing conditional
on GRH. but this now seems very unlikely to be super helpful.

