\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
$n^{7/3}$ APSP +2 approx
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Split into three types of vertices: high: $\deg v > H$ medium: $\deg v \in [L, H]$, low: $\deg v < L$.

**Case 1**: the shortest $u,v$ path contains a high degree
vertex.
We capture an approx for these guys as follows:
Sample $100 n/H \log n$ vertices, call the sample $S_1$. WHP $S_1$ contains a neighbor of *every* high degree vertex.
BFS out of all the vertices in $S_1$ to compute $d(h, v)$ for
each $h\in S_1, v\in V$. Then itterate over $u,v\in V^2, h\in S_1$ and set
$$d(u,v)\le \min_{h\in S_1} d(u,h) + d(h,v).$$
This gives a $+2$ approx for Case 1 pairs.

**Case 2**: the shortest $u,v$ path contains a medium degree
vertex.
Sample $100n/L \log n$ vertices. Call this $S_2$.
Do a BFS out of each vertex in $S_2$, this costs $nH \cdot n/L$.
Now we can't just do what we did in Case 1: it'd be too slow.

Instead, we create a new graph which should hopefully have
max-degree $L$ but not throw away the info we just got from
$S_2$.

First, delete all edges between vertices in $S_2$ and between all
vertices of middle degree. I.e., we only keep edges with one
endpoint being a low degree vertex and edges that have one
endpoint in $S_2$ and one endpoint out of $S_2$.
The number of edges in the resulting graph is at most $nL +
nH/L$.

Now, itterate over each vertex $u\in V$: we will run a fancy SSSP from $u$.
First, we take the above graph and we add edges from $u$ to each
vertex $x\in S_{2}$ of length $d(x, u)$ (when I say edge
of length $\ell$ I really mean a path of lenght $\ell$ because we are
doing unweighted APSP). 
Then BFS out of $u$. The cost of this BFS is the number of edges
in the graph which is $nL + nH/L$.

We claim that this BFS gives a 2-approx to the shortest paths out
of $u$ (except for the $v$ for which $(u,v)$ was already handled
in case 1).

To see this, first note that all $(u,v)$ paths consisting solely
of low degree vertices survive  in the modified graph.

Next, observe that if the shortest $(u,v)$ is a path of case 2, i.e.,  has a medium degree vertex on it, then taking the shortcut from $u$ to the final medium degree vertex on this shortest $u,v$ path and then following low degree edges gets us to $v$. Hence we can also find this sort of path.

Run time over all is 

$$ n^{3}/H + n^2H/L + n^2L \le O(n^{7/3}) $$
by setting $H=n^{2/3},L= n^{1/3}$.

</div>

<div class="rmk envbox">**Remark.**
This is not the best known APSP approx. 
You can do a bit better with MM. 

Also, if you are looking for a 2x approx instead of +2 approx you
can also do better.
</div>
