\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


## Kernelization

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
$k$-Vertex cover: is there a set of $k$ vertices "covering" all
the edges? (i.e., so that there is a vertex incident to every
edge).

1. Kill isolated vertices
2. Always take vertices of degree larger than $k$
3. In a max-degree $d$ graph you can't hope to cover more than
   $kd$ edges. So we can instantly identify as no-instances
   graphs with too many edges.

By applying these rules we can in $n^{O(1)}$ time reduce $k$-vertex
cover to an instance of size $O(k^{2})$ edges and $O(k^{2})$
vertices.

Then you can brute force solve the kernel in time
$\binom{k^{2}}{k}$.

Remark: this is by no means the best kernel for vertex cover. 

</div>

## Branching

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
$k$-vertex cover is a good example here too. 
You can either take a vertex or take all of its neighbors. 

The algorithm is then:

- "base case": if the max degree ever drops to $2$ then apply a
    trivial algorithm to determine the vertex cover
- otherwise, branch on the highest degree vertex (i.e., chose it
    or chose its neighbors).

The nice part: this search tree can have depth at most $k$.
In fact, you can even say some stronger stuff like the number of
leaves of the tree will be at most $\phi^{k}$ where $\phi^{k}$ is
the $k$-th fibonacci number, because you can write a nice
reccurrence. I think you maybe even get a better exponential
thing. 

</div>

## Randomization

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
Longest Path. I.e., is there a path (no repeated vertices) of length $k$?

Randomly color vertices with $k$ colors. 
Probability that your path is rainbow is like $e^{-k}$.

We can find rainbow paths with DP.
</div>

<div class="ex envbox">**Example.**
isomorphic subgraph given $H,G$ where $H$ is a $k$-vertex graph
and $G$ is a max-degree $d$ graph determine whether $H$ is
isomorphic to any subgraph of $G$.

For simplicity imagine that $H$ is connected. 

randomly 2-color edges of $G$. 
hope that this results in a copy of $H$ in $G$ being highlighted
by the colors. 

Search over connected components in the colorful subgraph for one
isomorphic to $H$.

</div>


TODO: 
- Divide and color
- chromatic coloring 
- derandomization via splitters
- other chapters of the textbook

