\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


> QUESTION: What is the minimum size formula that computes the PARITY function?

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
Boolean formula: some boolean variabes that you can combine with ANDs and ORs. 

This is distinct from a circuit because you aren't allowed to
re-use values.
</div>

Here's a pretty simple formula for computing parity:
<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
There is an $\bigO(n^{2})$ size formula for computing parity. 
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
$$[x\oplus y \oplus z\oplus w = 0] = ([x\oplus y = 0] \land [z\oplus w = 0]) \lor ([x\oplus y = 1] \land [z\oplus w = 1]). $$
So we should get the recurrence 
$$T(n) = 4T(n/2)+4$$
or something which solves to $O(n^{2}).$

</div>

What follows is based on [some notes I found online](https://nitinsau.github.io/teaching/BFC19-mpii/lecture3.pdf).

The point of this blog post is to prove a lower bound!
<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
There is no boolean formula for XOR of size smaller than $n^{2}$.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**

We use the notion of a **formal complexity measure**, which is a
function mapping formulas to $\R$ satisfying the following properties:

- $\mu(x_i),\mu(\overline{x_i}) = 1$.
- $\mu(x\lor y) \le \mu(x)+\mu(y)$, $\mu(x\land y) \le \mu(x)+\mu(y)$.

For $A, B\subset \set{0,1}^{n}$ define 
$$H(A, B) = \setof{(a, b)\in A \times B}{\Delta(a, b)=1}$$
where $\Delta$ measures the hamming distance. 

Define 
$$K_{A, B} = \frac{|H(A,B)|^{2}}{|A||B|}.$$

Khrapchenko’s measure: 
Let $f: \set{0,1}^{n} \to \set{0,1}$ be a circuit. Then we define
$$\mu(f) = \max{K_{A, B}: A\subset f^{-1}(0), B\subset f^{-1}(1)}$$

Turns out this is a formal complexity measure. 

The key fact about formal complexity measures is that they
provide lower bounds on the minimum size formula that computes a
function.

For $f$ being PARITY we can compute

$$\mu(f) \ge n^{2},$$
by taking $A,B$ to just be the entire pre-images of $0,1$
respectively.
Neat!

</div>

Too bad this can't prove $P\neq NP$.