\renewcommand{\O}{\mathcal{O}}
\newcommand{\tilo}{\widetilde{\O}}
\newcommand{\nil}{\varnothing}
\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}
\newcommand{\legendre}[2]{\genfrac{(}{)}{}{}{#1}{#2}}
\newcommand{\EXP}{\mathsf{EXP}}
\newcommand{\PSPACE}{\mathsf{PSPACE}}
\newcommand{\NEXP}{\mathsf{NEXP}}
\newcommand{\PP}{\mathsf{P}}
\newcommand{\NP}{\mathsf{NP}}
\newcommand{\erdos}{Erd\H{o}s}
\newcommand{\pmo}{\set{-1,1}}
\newcommand{\zo}{\set{0,1}}


\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


# 1. complete sets

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
A set $S$ is $r$-complete if, for any $r$-coloring of $S$ there
is a monochromatic set of numbers in $S$ summing to all
sufficiently large values.
</div>

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
A set is $\eps$-complete if, for any subset $S'$ of $S$ with size at
least $\eps|S|$ there is a subet of $S'$ summing to all
sufficiently large values.
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
There are $\eps$-complete sets of size approx $\eps^{-1}\log^2
n$.
</div>

First need key lemma. Theorem follows immediately from lemma.
<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
Fix $\eps>0, n\in \N$.
There is a set of $\eps^{-1}\log n$ many integers whose set of
subsets contains an interval of size $n\log n$ and starts at $n/2$ or something.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Here we highlight the general technique that seems to be powering
a lot of their results.

1. Randomly sample numbers with no prime divisors smaller than $(\log n)/2$ (iirc)
2. For the first little while, whenever you add a number it is
   quite likely to double the interval of attainable sums.
3. Then once your interval is rather large and you've drawn a
   bunch of elements you can extend the interval by the size of
   the drawn elements each time.

**TODO: figure out details?**

</div>

Proof of theorem from lemma:
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Dyadically apply the lemma
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
There are no $\epsilon$-complete sets of size smaller than
$\log^2 n$
</div>


# 2. avoiding a specific sum

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
We say a coloring of $[n]$ is good if there is no monochromatic
set of integers summing to  $n$.

I ignore log factors in following statement.

You need about $n^{1/3}$ colors to be good.
There exists a good coloring using $n^{1/3}$ colors.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**

We split our colors up into several types:

1. big elements
2. multiples of primes not dividing $n$
3. everything else, grouped into groups with sums smaller than $n$.

It turns out that after handling 1,2 there is not so much stuff
left for 3, and what's left is pretty small. So this ends up
being a pretty efficient coloring.

</div>

# 3. $r$-complete sets

<div class="prop envbox">**Proposition.**
$\set{p^{i}q^{j}}$ is not $2$-complete, but it is $1$-complete.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
Here is a 2-coloring that demonstrates the set is not 2-complete. 
Color powers of $p^{i}$ Red. Color everything else Blue.
Then all Blue numbers are multiples of $q$. So both blue and red
and severely limited in the numbers they can achieve.

**TODO1: prove it  is 1-complete**
</div>

<div class="rmk envbox">**Remark.**
As far as I know it is not known whether $\set{p^{i}q^{j}r^{k}}$ is $2$-complete or not.

**TODO2: solve**
</div>

# 4. subset-sum free set

<div class="prop envbox">**Proposition.**
The set $1,2,4,\ldots, 2^{k-1}$ has the property that all of its
subset sums are distinct.
</div>

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
Let $a_1<a_2<\cdots <a_k$ be positive integers such that
all subset sums of $\set{a_i}$ are distinct.
Then $a_k \ge 2^{k}/\sqrt{k}$.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**

First we give an easy argument to show $a_k \ge 2^{k}/k$.
If $a_k<2^{k}/k$ then all subset sums would be contained in $[2^{k}-1]$.
But there are $2^{k}$ subset sums so they could then not all be
distinct.

To prove $2^{k}/\sqrt{k}$ we use second moment method.
If you take a random sum it is tightly concentrated.

**TODO3: figure this out more**

Fox talked about how they did something fancy isoperimetric
inequality boolean cube to get a better constant.

**TODO4: upper or lower bounds is a kind of fun openq to think about**

</div>

