\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


so, I'm taking this combinatorics class. 
And combinatorics is kind of my **thing**.
But the class definitely puts a lot of learning responsibility on
the student. Well, I could just complain and say "I wish we had
more psets". But maybe a more productive thing to do would be to
be self-disciplined in working through exercises left in lecture
and learning stuff. For this purpose I'm going to write some blog
posts corresponding to solutions to the exercises left in
lecture.

Anyways, enough talk. Let's count!

<div class="thm envbox">**Theorem.**
$$\sum_{w\in S_n}x^{inv(w)} = \prod_{n\geq 1} \sum_{i=0}^n x^i$$
</div>

where **inv** counts the number of inversions in the permutation

**todo**: show that this is equidistributed with the **majority
index**

<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
define the "inversion profile" to be, for each $i>1,$ we record
for how many  $j<i$  $i,j$ is an inversion, i.e. $\pi_j>\pi_i$.

This is an invertable procedure: given an inversion profile I
can reconstruct the permutation by recursing up from a size $1$
thing and inserting the next point at the right place each time.

But an inversion profile clearly amounts to choosing powers of $x$ from the polynomials in the product. 
So we have the desired bijection.
</div>
