\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\{#1\}}
\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\{#1 \mid #2\}}
\newcommand{\im}{\mathrm{im}}

\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}



I was talking to Peter about the following problem:

> What is the largest possible size of a set $X\subset [n]$ where
any quadruple $a,b,c,d\in X^4$ with $a+b=c+d$ is just a trivial
quadruple, i.e., $\set{a,b} = \set{c,d}$.

Using the probabilistic method and alterations I think you get $n^{\frac{1}{3}}/100$.
In particular, include each element with probability
$\frac{1}{100 n^{\frac{2}{3}}}$. Then the expected number of bad
quadruples $a,b,c,d$ is  $\frac{1}{100^{4} n^{\frac{8}{3}}}\cdot n^{3} =
n^{\frac{1}{3}}/100^{4}$. So you can probably wholesale kill all
the bad quadruples and you aren't really losing that much by way
of density.

But for various reasons I wanted a constructive (i.e.,
non-randomized) algorithm for constructing such a set. 

Peter had this idea:
Let $n=4p^{2}$ for some prime $p$.
Take your set to be $\{2px + (x^2 \mod p)\mid x\in [p]\}$.
So, this has density $\Omega(\sqrt{n})$ which is impossible
to beat and its determinstic. Dang nice!

**Claim**: this is free of the pattern we want to avoid

$$2px+(x^2 \mod p) + 2py + (y^2 \mod p) = 2pz+(z^2 \mod p) + 2pw + (w^2 \mod p)$$ basically by construction
means

$$x^2+y^2 \equiv z^2+w^2 \mod p$$
$$x+y \equiv z+w \mod p$$

So,
$$x^2+(z+w-x)^2 \equiv z^2+w^2 \mod p$$
$$x^2+(z+w)^2-2x(z+w)+x^2 \equiv z^2+w^2 \mod p$$
$$2x^2+z^2+2zw+w^2-2x(z+w) \equiv z^2+w^2 \mod p$$
$$x^2 \equiv x(z+w)-zw \mod p$$

This is a quadratic in $x$ over a field. So it has two solutions.
And basically what's going to happen is we get one solution $x_0$
which gives $y_0=z+w-x_0$ so we have $(x_0,y_0)$ and then its
going to turn out that $y_0,x_0$ is also a solution (obviously).

Anyways, we find that the set is free of the pattern as desired.

