\newcommand{\one}{\mathbbm{1}}
\newcommand{\bigO}{\mathcal{O}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}
\DeclareMathOperator{\rank}{rank}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Id}{Id}
\DeclareMathOperator{\img}{Img}
\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\newcommand{\st}{\text{ such that }}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert#1\right\rVert}
\newcommand{\interior}[1]{ {\kern0pt#1}^{\mathrm{o}} }
\newcommand{\mb}{\mathbf}
\newcommand{\partition}{\vdash}
\newcommand{\x}{\mathbf{x}}
\newcommand{\y}{\mathbf{y}}
\newcommand{\z}{\mathbf{z}}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\renewcommand{\d}{\mathrm{d}}
\renewcommand{\Re}{\mathrm{Re}}
\renewcommand{\Im}{\mathrm{Im}}

\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\left\{ #1\; : \;#2 \right\}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{ #1\right\}}

\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\contr}{\[ \Rightarrow\!\Leftarrow \]}
\newcommand{\defeq}{\vcentcolon=}
\newcommand{\eqdef}{=\vcentcolon}

\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}
\newcommand{\paren}[1]{\left( #1 \right)}
\newcommand{\ang}[1]{\langle #1 \rangle}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left| #1 \right|}


Well red-black trees, AVL trees, and other
standard balanced binary search trees are

- super complicated
- not very beautiful

So, can we do better?

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
Splay Tree: 
a "self-balancing" binary search tree. In other words, 
it achieves  $O(\log n)$ ammortized update / find operations. and
it's super simple. 

```python
find(v):
  search the tree for v
  splay(v)
```
</div>

ok so what's a splay operation?
It's a sequence of double rotations, termed **zig-zag**,
**zag-zig**, **zig-zig**, **zag-zag**. 
In particular, these operations are performed a path from the
splayed node to the root, and result in the splayed node becoming
the root (or at least becoming really close to the root, e.g.
distance $1$ away from the root).

So why *splay*? 
Well, the key feature of any lazy data structure is that
expensive operations in your data structure need to clean up the
data structure.
So for example if there is a *find* operation that takes a really
long time, then the found node is moved to the top of the tree,
causing subsequent searches on that node to be less expensive.
This serves to shorten paths that are too long.

Some more intuition for splay trees: 
if a nodes subtrees are unbalanced in size, e.g. one subtree has
more than $2/3$ the weight of the full tree then that's an
indication that we are not super balanced.
So, we want to make "huge subtrees" a high potential state, and
then we can extract potential from them to fix them.
We can fix a huge subtree by rotating it to be higher in the
tree.

<div class="defn envbox">**Definition.**
The rank of a node  $x$ is $r(x) = \log$ size of subtree rooted
at $x$.
</div>

<div class="lem envbox">**Lemma.**
The amortized cost to splay node $x$ to the root $t$ is $3 (r(t)
-r(x)) + 1$
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
just analyze the potential change from each double-rotation
operation. It's not too complicated.
</div>

<div class="cor envbox">**Corollary.**
We get amortized $\log n$ operations for the splay tree.
</div>

<div class="rmk envbox">**Remark.**
OK. Splay Trees are actually super weird though.
There is this thing called the Dynamic Optimality conjecture,
which postulates that splay trees are just literally the best
at everything. 

Some data supporting the conjecture includes:

- if you had some access frequencies splay trees achieve (up to
constants) entropy for average search time.
- static finger theorem: if you search for stuff and you are
measuring how far you have to move to get to stuff
- cache optimality
</div>

### credit
Splay Trees are were invented by Sleator and Tarjan
My understanding of Splay Trees is thanks to Professor Karger

