\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}
\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\K}{\mathbb{K}}
\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\{#1\}}
\newcommand{\setof}[2]{\{#1 \mid #2\}}
\newcommand{\im}{\mathrm{im}}

\DeclareMathOperator{\polylog}{\text{polylog}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\poly}{\text{poly}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\E}{\mathbb{E}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{\text{Var}}
\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}


\DeclareMathOperator{\ser}{\circledcirc}
\DeclareMathOperator{\pll}{\shortparallel}

## lower bound
<div class="rmk envbox">**Remark.**
Sorry this probably doesn't make too much sense unless you are
intimately familiar with the notation that I made up for this
problem. Ask me about it some time if you're curious and I
haven't told you already!
</div>

<div class="prop envbox">**Proposition.**
  In the decide on arrival model, no deterministic on-line
  algorithm has competitive ratio better than $2$.
</div>
<div class="pf envbox">**Proof.**
  Imagine we get tasks in the following order: 
  $$(2,p), (4,2p), (8,4p), (8, 8p)\times p-3.$$
  Clearly OPT can handle this in time $8$.
  If the algorithm decides any of the first $3$ tasks $\ser$
  ever, then we don't give the rest of the tasks and the
  algorithm has ratio $2$. 
  On the other hand, if the algorithm did the first $3$ tasks all
  in $\pll$, then the total time is going to be approximately
  $1+2+4+8 \approx 8\cdot 2$. This demonstrates the lower bound. 
</div>

## reflections

I've been trying for probably 2 months (at least) at time of
writing this post to prove a bound of $\phi \approx 1.618$ for
the competitive ratio of a scheduling algorithm for a problem
related to this.
In the problem you have some tasks that come over time and you
need to decide between multiple methods of performing the tasks.
Fairly early on I reasoned that deciding what to do with a task
on the moment it arrives is the way to go.

There were a couple of reasons for this.
1. procrastinating a decision could prevent you from getting
started with a task which seems potentially wasteful.
2. if you knew what tasks where going to come in the future, then
   clearly it never makes sense to procrastinate deciding how to
   run a task.
3. "decide on arrival" makes the algorithm theoretically much
   simpler / cleaner / easy to analyze.

I spent a lot of time working with a specific decide on arrival
  strategy that I was fairly convinced should achieve $\phi$. 
After weeks of being stuck, I finally stumbled upon an example,
similar to the one in this article of a set of tasks where the
algorithm is **not** in fact $\phi$ competitive, and cannot be
better than $2$.

Was all the work it took to get here for naught?
I don't think so. 
Many people say the main goal of research is personal growth /
learning. I think I get what this means, but is not the best
explanation in my opinion. Here's how I would describe it:

> Doing research is like climbing a mountain \
> Maybe you brought some nasty food like tuna \
> [Having to endure eating some gross math] \
> Maybe you have a bad sense of direction and it's dark and rainy
and you don't know where you are. \
> [Having a faulty conjecture, many
unsuccesful proof attempts ] \ 
> Your legs and back start to be in pain from the exertion \
> [pens run out of ink. Backpack and camera roll full of colorful
pieces of paper and pictures of blackboards. Mind full of the
ideas that have been tried, and the paths maybe worth trying
slightly differently] \
> But if you step back. Smile at the challenges and laugh at the
obstacles. It feels kind of epic. \
> [The process of creating new ideas is beautiful]

It's not the solution that ends up being the most meaningful.
It's the weeks and months spent imperceptibaly preparing
yourselfl to arrive at the solution. Put poetically by Sanderson
"Journey before Destination."

And so no, this method I was trying for a $\phi$ competitive
algorithm was not succesful. But it led me to discover how
important not deciding on arrival is. I in fact found that $2$
for the decide on arrival variant of the problem and is achieved
by one of the algorithms I was thinking about.
And now I have some new ideas for getting $\phi$. 
Onward to phi!

