{title}
basic algebra definitions
{contents}

{description}
Breifly review basic algebra definitions.
{body}

I'm trying to brush up on my Algebra before taking an Algebra
class (NT) this semester.
Basically, I should go reread Artin, or find my notes.
Or I can just wikipedia things as they come up.
Anyways, here's a place to write stuff down.

- group
  - ex: $S_n, A_n, D_n$
  - more exs: $SL_n, GL_n, U_n$
  - abelian group: all elements commute
  - normal subgroup: subgroup invariant under conjugation
  - conjugacy class: a set of elements that are all conjugate to
      each other (conjugacy is an equivalence relation)

beg thm
Lagrange's theorem:
Let $H$ be a subgroup of $G$. Then $|H| \mid |G|$.
end thm
beg pf
We claim that the relation "$x\sim y$ if $xH = yH$" is an
equivalence relation.
I.e., left cosets form a partition of $G$.

This is true because if $xh_1 = yh_2$ then $x=y h_2h_1^{-1}$.
end pf

- **ring**
  - ex: $\Z[x]$
    - we spend quite a bit of time talking about when polynomials
        are irreducible iirc
  - module: like a vector space but scalars are from a ring
      rather than a field. These can be wacky.

- **ideal**
  - $I\subseteq R$ satisfying:
  - If $s_1,s_2\in I, r_1,r_2\in R$ then $s_1r_1+s_2r_2\in I$.

    - principal ideal: generated by a single element
    - maximal ideal: no other proper ideals contain it

- **field**
  - algebraicly closed field: all non-constant polynomials have roots.
  -
  - field extensions where important
    - you can get an extension, e.g., by adjoining an element
    - in general an extension is just a superset field
    - the degree of an extension $[K: F]$ is the dimension of  $K$ as an $F$ vector space.
    - multiplicative property of field extensions
  - splitting field: a finite field extension in which some given polynomial factors
  - here's a cool fact that I had forgotten:

beg prop
Let $F\subset K$ be fields and let  $f,g\in F[x]$. Suppose that
$\exists h\in L[x]$ such that $fh = g$.
Then in fact $\exists h\in F[x]$ such that $fh=g$.
Said another way,  $f\mid g$ is "unambiguous".
end prop

beg prop
Splitting theorem:

An irreeducible polynomial over $F$ with one root in $K$ splits
completely in $K$.
end prop

- vector space
  - ex: $\R$ is a $\Q$ vector space

- representation of a group
  - $\rho: G\to GL(V)$
  - character of a representation: trace
  - reducible: can write as direct sum
  - 1D chars
  - regular rep
  - Shur's lemma
  -
  - irreducible characters are orthonormal
  - number of irreps equals number of conjugacy classes

- **Integral Domain**: Commutative ring with no zero divisors
  - ex $\Z[x]$
  - non-example: $\Z[x,y]/(xy)$ (not an integral domain because $x\cdot y = 0$)

- **Euclidean Domain**
  - an integral domain endowed with a norm function that allows you
      to divide via the euclidean algorithm
  - ex: $\Z[i]$ with norm the complex norm or $\Z[x]$ with norm being the degreee of the polynomial

- **PID** 
  - integral domain where every ideal is principal (generated by a single element)

- **UFD**
  - integral domain where you can uniquely factor (modulo units)

- **Prime Ideal**
  - $ab\in P \implies a\in P \lor b\in P$

- **Galois Group**
  - Let $K,K'$ be field extensions of $F$. An $F$-isomorphism $\phi: K\to K'$ is an isomorphism that fixes $F$ (is the identity map when restricted to $F$ ).
  - If $K\supseteq F$, then the Galois group $G(K/F)$ is the group
      of **$F$-automorphisms** of $K$.
  - some deep theorem about a bijection between subgroups of the
      galois group and intermediate field extensions.


- **irreducible polynomial**
  - Gauss' lemma: a primitive polynomial (gcd of coefficients is
      a unit) is irreducible over the integers iff irreducible
      over the rationals.
  - another thing: if a polynomial is irreducible over $\F_p[X]$
      then it is also irreducible over $\Z[X]$

- **minimal polynomial**:
- given $\alpha\in K\supset F$ the minimal polynomial of
- $\alpha$ over $F$ is the (unique, irreducible) polynomial of
- minimum degree in $F[x]$ that has $\alpha$ as a root.


beg thm
Let $\alpha\in K$ be algebraic over $F$. 
Then we say that a monic polynomial $f\in F[x]$ with $\alpha$ as a root
is the (unique) minimal polynomial for $\alpha$ over $F$ if the following
equivalent conditions hold:

- $f$ is the poly of minimum degree in $F[x]$ with $\alpha$ as a root.
- $f$ is an irreducible polynomial in $F[x]$.
- $(f)$ is a maximal ideal in $F[x]$.
- For all $g\in F[x]$ with $g(\alpha) = 0$ we have $f\mid g$.
end thm

beg thm
Let $f$ be the minimal poly for $\alpha\in K\supset F$ over $F$.
Then
$$F[x]/(f) = F[\alpha] = F(\alpha).$$
end thm
beg pf
We have the natural evaluation isomorphism $f(x)\mapsto f(\alpha)$.

$(f)$ is irreducible means that $(f)$ is a maximal ideal which
means that $F[x]/(f)$ is a field.

$F(\alpha)$ is just defined to be the smallest extension of $F$ containing  $\alpha$, so we are done.
end pf

beg thm
Some important facts:

1. If $F$ is a field then $F[x]$ is a euclidean domain.
2. If $F$ is a field then $F[x]$ is a PID.
3. $f$ is an irreducible poly iff $(f)$ is a maximal ideal.
4. $I$ is a maximal ideal iff $F[x]/I$ is a field.
end thm
beg pf

1. We define the norm to be the degree of a polynomial.
You can do Euclidean algorithm because we are working in a field.

2. Suppose we have an ideal $I$ in $F[x]$.
Let $f\in I$ be a polynomial of minimum non-zero degree in $I$.
We claim that $(f) = I$. If there is any  $g\in I\setminus (f)$
then  $g\mod f$ would have degree smaller than that of $f$ (this
is well defined because $F[x]$ is a euclidean domain), a
contradiction.

3. Well it's quite clear that if $f$ factors then $(f)$ is not
maximal:  $(f) = (gh)\subset (g)$.
And the PID-ness of $F[x]$ means that if $(f)$ were not maximal
there would be a $(g)$ such that  $(f)\subset (g) \subsetneq F[x].$
But then $g\mid f$ contradicting the fact that  $f$ is
irreducible.

4. 
Suppose $I$ is a maximal ideal of ring $R$.
Let $f\in R$.
**claim:**  $I+Rf$ is an ideal of  $R$.
**pf:** 
$$R(I+Rf) = I+Rf, (I+Rf)+(I+Rf)= I+Rf.$$

Also,
$$I\subseteq I+Rf\subseteq R.$$
If $f\in I$ then we don't need to produce an inverse for $f$ in
$R/I$. If $f\notin I$ then  $I\subsetneq I+Rf$. But $I$ is
maximal so we then get $I+Rf = R$.
In particular this means that there is $g\in R$ such that 
$$fg\in I+1.$$
So we can set $g$ to be the inverse of $f$ in $R/I$ and its clear
that $R/I$ is a ring, so having mult inverses completes the pf
that it's a field.

end pf


- **separable polynomial**
  - roots are distinct in an algebraic closure
  - you can tell if a minimal poly has repeated roots based on
      whether its formal derivative is the zero polynomial.
      Or actually maybe the relevant detail is whether the gcd of
      the derivative and the original function is one or not. 
- separable extension: 
  - for every $\alpha\in L$ which is algebraic over  $K$ the
      minimal poly of $\alpha$ over $K$ is separable.

- **splitting field of a poly**: smallest field extension in which
    the poly factors
  - the splitting field is unique up to iso 
  - constructing the splitting field: adjoin roots to split up
      non-linear factors

- **exact sequence**:
  - image of one morphism is the kernel of the next.
  - $im(f_i) = ker(f_{i+1})$
  - ex: $0\to X \to Y \to 0$ means that  $X,Y$ is an isomorphism

## NT 1.1 existence

- An Algebraicly Closed Field of characteristic $p$:
  - the existence of this is somehow tied to axiom of choice /
      zorn's lemma.
  - vaguely speaking the idea is to make a poset with "K is a
      field extension of F being the order relation" and then
      finding an upper bound 

Throughout the post we take $p$ prime and $q$ a power of $p$.

Note: $x\mapsto x^{p}$ is an automorphism of $\F_q$, because if $x^{p}=y^{p}$
then $(x-y)^{p} = 0$ and hence $x=y$.

i.
Field have prime characteristic (or else it violates the fact that
fields have no zero-divisors).

If $\F_q$ has characteristic $p$ then the size of $\F_q$ is a
power of $p$, becuase $\F_q$ is a vector space over $\F_p$.
So, we could just repeatedly project off subspaces of $\F_q$.

ii.
Let $\Omega$ be algebraicly closed.
Then $x\mapsto x^{q}$ is an automorphism of $\Omega$.
Thus, the set of elements fixed by this automorphism, i.e., the
roots of $x^{q}-x$ form a field (you can check that inverses,
sums, etc must lie in the set).
 
Observe that the derivative of $x^{q}-x$ is nowhere zero.
This means that it has no repeated roots.
Thus it has $q$ distinct roots.

For the uniqueness part, if $K$ is a subfield of $\Omega$ with
$q$ elements, then for any $x\in K^{*}$ we have $x^{q-1}=1$,
by Lagrange's theorem: the multiplicative group $K^*$ is a group
with  $q-1$ elements so the order of each element must divide
into $q-1$. Hence $x^{q}=x$ for all $x\in K$.
But then $K\subseteq \F_q$. They have the same cardinality so are
actually equal.

iii.
beg thm
$\F_q$ is unique.
end thm
beg pf
Take $K/\F_p$ of order $q$.
So we can embed $K$ in $\Omega$. But we said already there is a
unique subfield of $\Omega$ with $q$ elements.
end pf

Alternate proof:
beg pf
Take $K_1,K_2$ both fields of order $q$.
Let $\alpha$ be a generator for $K_1^{*}$, and let $f$ be the
minimal polynomial for $\alpha$ over $\F_p$.

Then $f\mid x^{q}-x$.

Thus, $f$ must split in $K_2$.
Thus, there is $\beta \in K_2$ which is a root of $f$.

Thus, 
$$K_1=\F_p(\alpha) = \F_p[x]/(f) = \F_p(\beta) = K_2.$$

end pf


## NT 1.2 cyclic

beg thm
$\F_q^{*}$ is cyclic.
end thm
beg pf
The number of $x$ with $x^{d}=1$ is at most $d$ because we are
working in a field.
Suppose that $x^{d}=1$. Then $(x)$ is an order $d$ subgroup of
the group, and consists of $d$ (i.e., *all*) solutions to the
equation $x^{d}=1$.
Suppose that $y$ is an element of order $d$. Then we must have $y
= x^{i}$ for some $i\in \Z_d^{*}$.
Hence, there are at most $\phi(d)$ elements of order $d$ in
$\F_q^{*}$.

Then of course 
$$|\F_q^{*}| \le \sum_{d\mid q-1} \phi(d) = q-1.$$
But then we must have equality in all the cases.
In particular, there are $\phi(q-1)\ge 1$ elements of order $q-1$.

Recall that the lemmma $\sum_{d\mid n}\phi(d) = n$ is true
because we can partition $[n]$ based on the gcd of numbers with
$n$ into classes of size $\phi(n/d)$.
end pf


## NT 2.1 sums

beg lem
For any positive integer $c$ we have
$$\sum_{x\in K} x^{(q-1)c} = -1.$$

For any positive integer $u\notin (q-1)\Z$ we have
$$\sum_{x\in K} x^{u} = 0.$$
In fact $\sum_{x\in K} x^{0} = 0$ is also true, using the
convention that $x^{0}=1$ for all $x$.
end lem
beg pf

The first statement is clear: all the values that we are summing
are $1$ and there are $q-1$ many values.

For the second statement we use the fact that there must be a
generator $g$ satisfying $g^{u}\neq 1$.
Hence,

$$\sum_{x\in K} x^{u} = \sum_{x\in K} (gx)^{u} = g^{u}\sum_{x\in K} x^{u}.$$
But this means $\sum_{x\in K}x^{u} = 0.$

end pf

beg thm
Suppose you have a set of polynomials $f_\alpha \in [X_1,\ldots,
X_n]$ with $\sum_\alpha \deg f_\alpha < n$, and let  $V$ be the
set of common zeros of your polynomials.
Then $|V|\in p\Z.$
end thm
beg pf

The function $P=\prod_\alpha (1-f_\alpha^{q-1})$ indicates $V$
(i.e., is 1 on $V$ and zero elsewhere).

Observe that $\deg P < n(q-1)$.
Hence $P$ is a linear combination of monomials, where in each
monomial there is some variable $X_i$ whose degree is smaller
than $q-1$.

Hence, $\sum_{X\in K^{n}} X_i^{u} = 0$ by the earlier lemma.
But this actually means $\sum_{X\in K^{n}} P(X) = 0$ as well.

Now observe that $\sum_{X\in K^{n}}P(X)$ is exactly $|V| \mod p$.
So we have the desired result.

end pf

beg cor
If $\sum_\alpha \deg f_\alpha < n$ and the $f_\alpha$'s don't
have constant terms then the $f_\alpha$'s have a nontrivial
common zero.
end cor

## NT 3.1  QR 

beg thm
If $p=2$ then all elements of $\F_q$ are squares.

If $p\neq 2$ then the $QR_q$ forms a subgroup of $\F_q^{*}$ of index $2$.
Specifically, $QR_q = \ker (x\mapsto x^{(q-1)/2})$
end thm
beg pf

For the case $p=2$ recall that the Frobenius map $x\mapsto x^2$
is an automorphism. Thus, all elements of $\F_q$ are squares.

For the case $p\neq 2$ take any $x \in K$ and let $y$ be the
solution to the equation $y^2=x$ ($y$ lives in the algebraic
closure of $\F_q$ not necessarily $\F_q$ itself).

Then we have that  $y^{q-1} = x^{(q-1)/2}\in \pm 1$.
If $y^{q-1} = -1$ then clearly that is bad, $x$ is not a QR.
If $y^{q-1}=1$ then clearly that is good, $y\in K$ because $K$ is
literally defined as the roots of $X^{q}-X$.
Thus, $x$ would indeed by a QR in this case.

Why are half the numbers QRs?
We can invoke the cyclicity of $\F_q^{*}$.

end pf

## NT 3.2 Legendre

beg thm
Fix odd prime $p$.

$-1$ is a QR iff $p\equiv 1 \mod 4$.
$2$ is a QR iff $p\equiv \pm 1 \mod 8$.
end thm
beg pf
Only analyze the case of $2$.

Let $\alpha$ be a primitive 8th root of unity (i.e., its an 8th
root of unity but not a $4$th root of unity).
Then $y=\alpha+\alpha^{-1}$ is a square root of $2$, where $y$ is an
element of the algebraic closure of $\F_p$.
Then, $y^{p} = \alpha^{p}+\alpha^{-p}$.

If $p\equiv \pm 1 \mod 8$ then we find $y^{p} = y$ and $y\in \F_q$.
Else we find  $y\notin \F_q$.
end pf

## NT 3.3 Quadratic reciprocity

Let $m(x)$ be $0$ if $x\equiv 1\mod 4$ and $1$ if $x\equiv
3\mod 4$.

beg thm
Let $p,r$ be odd primes. Then
$$\legendre{r}{p} = \legendre{p}{r} \cdot (-1)^{m(r)m(p)}.$$
end thm

For primitive $r$-th root of unity $w$ define the "Gauss Sum"
$$y = \sum_{x\in \F_r} \legendre{x}{r} w^{x}.$$

beg lem
$$y^2=r\cdot (-1)^{m(r)}.$$

**TODO: do an example to see why $y$ is a reasonable guess for the
square-root.**
end lem
beg pf
$$y^2 = \sum_{x,z}\legendre{xz}{r} w^{x+z} = \sum_{u} w^{u} \sum_{t} \legendre{t(u-t)}{r}.$$

Let $$C_u = \sum_{t\in \F_r^*} \legendre{t^2}{r}\legendre{1-ut^{-1}}{r},$$
where of course $$\legendre{t^2}{r}=1$$ for all $t\in \F_r^*$.
Then we have
$$y^2 = (-1)^{m(r)}\sum_{u\in\F_r} w^{u} C_u.$$

When $u=0$ we have $C_0 = r-1$.
When  $u\neq 0$ we have $C_u = -1$ because the sum is basically
just the difference between number of QRs and non-QRs, except
minus $1$.
Then we use the lemma from earlier to understand $\sum_{u}w^u$,
and conclude.
end pf

beg lem
$$y^{p-1} = \legendre{p}{r}.$$
end lem
beg pf
We have
$$y^{p} = \sum_{x\in \F_r} \legendre{x}{p} w^{xp} = \sum_{z\in
\F_r} \legendre{zp^{-1}}{r} w^{z} = \legendre{p^{-1}}{r} y  =
\legendre{p}{r}y.$$
end pf

Now we can prove the theorem:
beg pf
By the first lemma
$(-1)^{m(r)} r$ is a square modulo $p$ iff $y\in \F_p$, which is
true iff $y^{p-1}=1$.
By the second lemma we know that $y^{p-1} = \legendre{p}{r}$

This gives
$$\legendre{(-1)^{m(r)}r}{p} = \legendre{p}{r}.$$
Finally, we have
$$\legendre{r}{p} (-1)^{m(r)m(p)} = \legendre{p}{r}.$$

end pf

beg rmk 
We can compute Legendre symbols in euclid algo esque manner.
end rmk

### Another proof of quadratic reciprocity: later

