{title}
Serre chapter 3
{contents}

{description}
Back with more of the intense NT book.
{body}

Hilbert symbol:
$(a,b)=1$ if  $z^2-ax^2-by^2=0$ has a non-trivial solution and $-1$ else.

Norm map:
$N_{K/F}(\alpha)$ is the determinant of the map $x\mapsto \alpha
x$.
For example, 
If $K$ is an extension of $F$ by adjoining $\sqrt{\beta}$ then
$N(z+\sqrt{\beta}y) = z^2-\beta y^2.$

beg prop
$(a,b)=1$ iff $a\in Nk[\sqrt{b}]^{*}$
end prop
beg pf
If $b$ is a square this is clear. 
If $b$ is a non-square then it is also true.
end pf

beg prop
The hilbert symbol satisfies:
$(a,b)=(b,a)$,
$$(a,c^2)=(a,-a) = (a,1-a) = 1,$$
$$(a,b) =1 \implies (aa',b)=(a',b),$$
$$(a,b)=(a,-ab) = (a, (1-a)b).$$
end prop
beg pf
The implication $(a,b)=1\implies (aa',b)=(a',b)$ seems
interesting. 
It's true because we characterized  $\setof{x}{(x,b)=1}$ as $Nk[\sqrt{b}]^{*}$.
So, because $a\in Nk[\sqrt{b}]^{*}$ we have $aa'\in
Nk[\sqrt{b}]^{*} \iff a'\in Nk[\sqrt{b}]^{*}$.
end pf

beg lem
$(aa',b)=(a,b)(a',b).$
end lem

Hilbert symbol is somehow related to legendre symbol.

# main theorem: some relationship between hilbert symbol and legendre symbol

beg thm
In reals this is easy to compute. 
As always there is something different in the case that $p=2$.
We just state for odd $p$.

Write $a=p^{\alpha}u, b = p^{\beta}v.$
In the $p$-adics we have $(a,b) = (-1)^{\alpha \beta \eps(p)}
\legendre{u}{p}^{\beta} \legendre{v}{p}^{\alpha}$

where $\eps(u) =  \frac{u-1}{2}\mod 2$, 
and where legendre symbol of element of $\Z_p^{*}$ actually means
first take the element's reduction modulo $p$ and then take the
legendre symbol.
end thm

beg cor
If $b$ is not a square then group $Nk_b^{*}$ is a subgroup of
index $2$ in $K^{*}$.
end cor

Recall: a point in $\Z_p^{m}$ is primitive if one of the $x_i$'s
in the vector is invertable (not div by $p$).

recall lemma: 
it you have non-trivial zero then you can find primitive zero.

now we have:
beg lem
Let $v\in U$.
if $z^2-px^2-vy^2=0$ has nontrivial solution in $\Q_p$ then it
has one with $z,y\in U, x\in \Z_p$.
end lem
beg pf
First get a primitive zero. Then take stuff mod p it can't work
unless $z,y$ are units.

The proof is kind of interesting.
suppose our solution didn't have $y,z$ being units. Then at least one of
them is div by $p$. But taking reduction $\mod p$ we find that
both must be $0$. But then  $px^2\equiv  0 \mod p^2$ so $x,y,z$
all div by $p$ contradicting the primitiveness of the zero.
end pf

Now we prove the theorem

beg pf
Split to three cases.
The reason there are only three cases is by symmetry and the fact
that multiplying stuff by squares doesn't change the hilbert
symbol.

**Case 1:** $\alpha =\beta = 0$.
Then we want to prove $(u,v) = 1$.
The equation $z^2-ux^2-vy^2 = 0$ is a quadratic form in 3 vars so
has a solution modulo $p$. Furthermore, the discriminant of the
quadratic form  is a $p$-adic unit: $uv$. Thus by that other
lemma "newton's method" this lifts to a $p$-adic solution.

**Case 2:** $\alpha =0, \beta = 1$.
Here the claim is 
\[ (pu,v) = \legendre{v}{p} \] 
Using a non-trivial fact from earlier in this blog post (the
first two propositions) we have in this case that $(pu,v)=(p,v)$.
If $v$ is a square then both $(p,v)$ and $\legendre{v}{p}$ are $1$ clearly.
Else, if $v$ is not a square then we had this theorem earlier
that said $p^{n}u$ is a square iff $n$ is even and $u\mod p$ is a
square in $\F_p$.
So then $\legendre{v}{p} = -1$.

Now using that lemma from earlier that somewhat conspicuously had
a $z^2-px^2-vy^2=0$ going on in it, an indication that it would
be useful for understanding $(v,p)$, we see that if  $(v,p)\neq
-1$ then we would get units $z,y$, and p-adic integer $x$ such that $z^2-px^2-vy^2=0$.
But this is ridiculous because then $v \equiv (zy^{-1})^2 \mod
p$, while we know $v$ is not a square.

**Case 3:** $\alpha =\beta = 1$.

We use another interesting formula, $(a,b)=(a,-ab)$ to reduce
this to case 2.

And the bilinearity thing follows from the fact that the legendre
symbols and other stuff in our formula is bilinear.

end pf

