{title}
quadratic reciprocity: Zolotarev's lemma
{contents}

{description}
An intruiging proof of quadratic reciprocity.
{body}

Throughout the post I use $(q\mid p)$ to denote the legendre
symbol bc I'm lazy.

I've seen quite a few proofs of QRLaw.
According to wikipedia there are hundreds. I don't know how
credible that is, but here's some ones I've seen:

- Geometric proof due to Einstein: 
  - $$(q\mid p) = (-1)^{\sum_{u=1}^{(p-1)/2}\floor{2qu/p}}.$$
  - $\sum_{u=1}^{(p-1)/2}\floor{2qu/p}$ is counting the number of
      lattice points in a certain triangle. You can do some
      symmetry and stuff.
- Gauss sums: you "guess" a square root in the algebraic closure in terms of a gauss sum. 
  - you then analyze when this square root is actually contained in the right field not just the algebraic closure.
- Zolotarev's lemma: this post

This proof is rather neat. I like it because we get to use
permutations, which are one of my favorite objects.

[my source](https://planetmath.org/zolotarevslemma)

First, recall an important combinatorial property of
permutations: the signature of a permutation is the number of
inversions -- $i,j$ with  $i<j, \pi_i > \pi_j$ -- in it mod 2.
Equivalently, it is the number of transpositions to make the
permutation.

beg ex
A cycle of length $k$ has signature $(-1)^{k-1}$.
end ex

beg lem
Let $\pi_m$ be the map  $x\mapsto mx \mod p.$
Then  $(m\mid p) = \sgn(\pi_m)$.
end lem
beg pf
Recall that $a^{(p-1)/2} = 1$ iff QR.

Notice that $\pi_m$ consists of $(p-1)/\text{ord}_p(m)$ many cycles,
all of length  $\text{ord}_p(m)$.
So you can just compute the signature and check that it matches
the legendre symbol.
end pf

beg thm
QR LAW:

$$ (p\mid q) = (q\mid p) \cdot (-1)^{\binom{p}{2}\binom{q}{2}}. $$ 

end thm
beg pf

Let $\pi: \Z_{pq}\to \Z_p \times Z_q$ be the canonical
isomorphism between these rings. Namely,  $aq+bp \mapsto (a,b)$.
Let  $\alpha,\beta$ be permutations of  $\Z_p \times \Z_q$
defined as
 $$ \alpha(x,y) = qx+y,y $$
 $$ \beta(x,y) = x, x+py. $$
Define a permutation $\lambda$ on $\Z_{pq}$ as  $\lambda(x+qy) =
px+y$.

Observe that 

 $$ \pi \lambda \pi^{-1} \alpha = \beta. $$ 

 by the lemma above $\sgn(\alpha) = (q\mid p)$ and  $\sgn(\beta)
 = (p\mid q)$.

 By counting inversions in  $\lambda$ we see that  $\sgn(\lambda) = (-1)^{\binom{p}{2}\binom{q}{2}}$.

end pf
