{title}
number theory classical additive bases: chapter 4
{contents}

{description}
A major topic in additive number theory is the following
question: given a set $A\subseteq \N$, can every sufficiently
large positive integer be expressed as the sum of a bounded
number of elements of $A$? If so, in how many ways can number $n$
be represented. 
We say that the set $A$ is an **additive basis** of order $h$ if
every positive integer can be written as the sum of at most $h$
elements from $A$.
{body}
A major topic in additive number theory is the following
question: given a set $A\subseteq \N$, can every sufficiently
large positive integer be expressed as the sum of a bounded
number of elements of $A$? If so, in how many ways can number $n$
be represented. 
We say that the set $A$ is an **additive basis** of order $h$ if
every positive integer can be written as the sum of at most $h$
elements from $A$.

In this chapter of the book I'm reading we prove some really neat
inequalities that will be helpful in doing circle method stuff.
As you probably know, I kind of self-discovered "the circle
method" in some form during my
[hashing](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13016.pdf) project. 
I'm moderately hopeful that seeing some of this stuff in more
detail / seeing the books take on it will be helpful for hashing.
In any case it sounds rather neat.

# definitions
Throughout the post we use $||\alpha||$  to denote the distance
from real $\alpha$ to the nearest integer.
We also use $e(t)$ to denote  $\exp(2\pi i t)$.

# some preperatory lemmas

beg lem
$$ \sum_{n=N_1}^{N_2} e(\alpha n)  \le \O(N_2-N_1, ||\alpha||^{-1}).$$ 
end lem
beg pf
Think about $e(\alpha n)$ as going around the circle at stride
$||\alpha||^{-1}$. Then this is clear.
Ofc if $||\alpha||^{-1}$ it is sometimes more productive to just
say look there are only $N_2-N_1$ total terms in my sum.
end pf

We say $\alpha\in\R$ is **Farey-q-adjacent** if $\alpha$ is
distance at most $1/q^2$ away from some reduced fraction of
denominator $q$.

beg lem
Suppose $\alpha$ is Farey-q-adjacent. Then 
$$ \sum_{r=1}^{q/2}\frac{1}{||\alpha r||} \le \O(q\log q). $$ 
end lem
beg pf
How to think about this:
you got a bunch of points they all be really close to the $1/q$
fractions.
So it makes a lotta sense that we get basically 

$$ \sum_{s=1}^{q/2} \frac{}{s/q} $$ 
which is just what we wanted.

Anyways now we be more formal a bit

Ok so the first thing that's worth being rather worried about is,
are we ever dividing by zero?

Luckily you can show that this doesn't happen. In fact
$$ ||\alpha r|| \ge 1/(2q) $$  for all $r\in [q/2]$.
end pf

Similar vibes lemma:

beg lem
Suppose $\alpha$ is Farey-q-adjacent. Then for any integer $h$
$$ \sum_{r=1}^{q}\min(V, \frac{1}{||\alpha (hq+r)||} \le \O(V+ q\log q). $$ 
end lem
beg pf
Same vibes as previous lemma except I guess we might need to
take a $V$ hit  $\O(1)$ times.
end pf


beg lem
Let $\alpha$ be Farey-q-adjacent.
Then, 
$$ \sum_{k=1}^{U} \min(n/k, 1/||\alpha k||) \le \O( (n/q+U+q)(\log 2qU) ). $$ 
end lem
beg pf
afaict you just split up the sum and apply the above lemmas
end pf

beg lem
Suppose $\alpha$ is Farey-q-adjacent. Then 
$$ \sum_{r=1}^{U}\min(n, \frac{1}{||\alpha r||}) \le \O( (q+U+n+\frac{Un}{q})\max(1,\log q)). $$ 
end lem
beg pf
Seems like the vibes are just to split up the sum based on values
of $r$ and win.
end pf

# now we do the important lemmas

beg lem
Let $$S(f) = \sum_{n=N_1}^{N_2} e(f(n)).$$ 
Then 
$$ |S(f)|^2 = \sum_{|d|<N} \sum_{n\in I(d)} e(\Delta_d(f)(n)) $$ 

discrete derivative interval.

We also need some version of this for 
$$ |S(f)|^{2^{\ell}} $$ 
It's super gross for some reason.
looks like they just Cauchy Shwarz the ez version
end lem

beg thm
WEYL's INEQUALITY!

Let $f(x) = \alpha x^{k}+\cdots$ be a degree $k$ polynomial. Suppose that $\alpha$ is
Farey-q-adjacent. Let $S(f)  = \sum_{n\in [N]} e(f(n)).$ 
Let $K  = 2^{k-1}$ and $\epsilon>0$.
Then 
$$ S(f)\le \O( N^{1+\eps} (N^{-1}+q^{-1}+N^{-k}q)^{1/K} ). $$ 
end thm
weyl differencing

beg cor
For each $k\ge 2$ there exists $\delta>0$ such that 
$\sqrt{N}\le q \le N^{k-1/2}.$
$$ \sum_{n=1}^{N} e(an^{k}/q) \le \O(N^{1-\delta}) $$ 
end cor


beg thm
Hua's Lemma

Let 
$$ T(\alpha)  = \sum_{n\in[N]} e(\alpha n^{k}).$$
Then
$$ \int_0^{1} |T(\alpha)|^{2^{k}} d\alpha \le O(N^{2^{k}-k+\eps}).$$ 
end thm

anyways, it's kind of hard to see why these are useful until we
actually apply it i guess. 

Also I didn't realize but hardy-littlewood or whatever actually
have an asymptotic formula for number of ways to write a number
as sum of k-th powers. that's insane. 

also note to self should probably just try to go through the
theorem with some easy setting like $k=2$ in mind.


