{title}
dirichlet, warmup
{contents}

{description}
In this post I will give a proof of Dirichlet's Theorem: in any
(reasonable) infinite arithmetic progression there are infinitely
many primes. Actually we will probably get a nice density
statement that is stronger than this.
{body}

We start with a couple simple ad-hoc proofs for some simple cases
of Dirichlet's theorem.
They are very natural, but don't generalize to the result we
want, and don't give you any type of density result.

## Simple proofs that $4\N+1, 4\N+3$ contain infinitely many primes

The following two proofs are taken from "Problems from the Book"
by Titu Andreescu and Gabriel Dospinescu, but are standard.

Assume that $p_1,\ldots, p_n$ is a complete list of the primes
congruent to $3$ modulo $4$, excluding $3$.
Then 
$$ 4 p_1\cdots p_n + 3 $$ 
must be divisible by some prime congruent to $3$ mod $4$.
Of course $p_1\cdots p_n$ is not divisible by $3$ so $4p_1\cdots
p_n + 3$ isn't either. 
Thus the product must be divisible by one of  $p_1,\ldots, p_n$.
But this is impossible by Euclid's algorithm.

Assume $q_1,\ldots, q_n$ complete list of primes congruent to
$1$ modulo $4$.
Then, 
$$ (q_1 q_2 \cdots q_n)^2 +1 $$ 
is not divisible by any $P_3$ primes, and is divisible by $2$
only once. Thus it should be divisible by $q_i$, which is
impossible by Euclid's algorithm.

These proofs are very elementary, although the second proof
already relies on a non-trivial fact about the classification of
prime factors of numbers of the form $n^2+1$.
However, they are fairly ad-hoc.
Furthermore, these proofs seem to have no hope of proving a
density statement. 

It turns out that the following proof generalizes more nicely,
and also gives you density statements.

The Euler Product Formula states that for any real $s>1$ the
following series/products exist and are equal.
$$ \sum_{n\ge 1} \frac{1}{n^s}  = \prod_p \frac{1}{1-p^{-s}} $$ 
It is implicit throughout this note that $p$ runs over primes
when written as an index in a sum or product.
The veracity of the Euler Product Formula is immediate from the
Fundamenal Theorem of Numbers -- the fact that all numbers
can be uniquely decomposed into prime factors -- along with
viewing $\frac{1}{1-p^{-s}}$ as the sum $\sum_{n\ge 0} p^{-ns}$,
and noting that for absolutely convergent sums it is legal to
rearrange terms arbitrarily.
Of course we know that 
$$ \lim_{s\to 1} \sum_{n\ge 1} n^{-s} = \infty. $$ 
This fact is incompatible with having finitely many primes: the
product on the RHS can't grow unboundedly if it is a product over
finitely many terms.

## Simple Euler Products 
We have seen an intruiging proof of the infinitude of the primes.
We now extend this to proving that there are infinitely many
primes in $4\N+1$ and  $4\N+3$.

The following proofs are taken from Andreescu and Dospinescu's
book again, but should probably be attributed to Dirichlet.

Let $\lambda$ be the character with $\lambda(2k) = 0, \lambda(4k+1)=1, \lambda(4k+3)=0$.
Define 
$$L(s, \lambda) = \sum_{n\ge 1} \frac{\lambda(n)}{n^{s}}.$$
For any $s>1$ we have absolute convergence, and thus can
re-arrange terms to achieve:
$$ \ln L(s)  = \sum_p \left(1-\frac{\lambda(p)}{p^{s}}\right).$$ 
Using basic taylor series one can show 
$$ \left|\ln L(s) - \sum_p \lambda(p)/p^{s}\right| \le O(1). $$ 
From here we derive that
$$ \left|\sum_{p} \lambda(p)/p^{s}\right| = O(1). $$ 
On the other hand, we know that 
$$ \lim_{s\to 1} \sum_p p^{-s} \to \infty. $$ 
Thus, there must be a large amount of cancellation occuring in
the sum $\sum_{p} \lambda(p)/p^{s}$. In particular, we must have
that there are infinitely many primes in both  $4\N+1$ and
$4\N+3$.

# Dirichlet Characters
To generalize this idea we need Dirichlet Characters.
[Credit to this is due to this paper by Thai Pham, a previous MIT student.](https://web.stanford.edu/~thaipham/papers/MIT_18.104_Review_Paper.pdf)
The following resource was also useful: Garrett, Paul, Primes in
arithmetic progressions, 2011. http : //www.math.umn.edu/ ∼ garrett/m/mf ms/notes c/dirichlet.pdf
as was wikipedia for [complex analysis background](https://awestover.github.io/skyspace/posts/analysis/02-07-24.html).

For an abelian group $G$ we define the dual $\hat{G}$ as the set
of homomorphisms from $G$ to $\C\setminus\set{0}$.

For example, if $G=(\Z/p\Z)^{*}$ then $\hat{G}$ is functions
$x\mapsto e(xk/p)$ for each $k\in (\Z/p\Z)^{*}$.
This illustrates a general fact:
beg thm
$\hat{G}$ is isomorphic to $G$.
end thm
beg pf
This is clear for cyclic groups and all finite abelian groups can
be written as a direct sum of cyclic groups.
end pf

We will only consider the case $G=(\Z/mZ)^{*}$.
In this case the elements of $G$ are in correspondence with
$\phi(m)$-th roots of unity.

A useful property of the dual group is:
beg lem
We have:

- $\sum_{g\in G}\chi(g) = 0$ unless $g=1$ in which case the sum is $|G|$
- $\sum_{\chi\in \hat{G}} \chi(g) = 0$ unless  $\chi=id$ in
    which case the sum is $|\hat{G}|$.
- $\ang{\chi, \phi} = \sum_{g} \chi(g)\overline{\phi(g)} = \one_{\chi=\phi}.$
end lem
These are standard and we omit the proofs.

# Dirichlet Series

Now we proceed with the proof of the theorem. Throughout the
section we fix $m$. Our goal will be to show that for every
$a\perp m$ the set $m\N+a$ contains infinitely many primes. The
idea of the theorem is to assert the divergence of a certain sum.
The following result will be helpful:

beg thm
Let $D(s) = \sum_{n\ge 1} a_n/n^{s}$. Suppose that $D(s_0)$
converges. Then $D$ is analytic on $\Re(s)>\Re(s_0)$.
end thm
beg pf
We omit the proof.
end pf

We will also need the **Dirichlet $L$-series**, defined as 
$$ L(s, \chi) = \sum_{n\ge 1} \frac{\chi(n)}{n^{s}}. $$ 
The $L$-series obey the following property:
beg lem
Fix any non-trivial $\chi$. Then, $L(s,\chi)$ converges and is
analytic in $\Re(s)>0$.

Furthermore, if $\Re(s)>1$ then  $L(s,\chi)$ converges
absolutely, and satisfies the product formula
$$ L(s, \chi) = \prod_{p\perp m} \frac{1}{1-\chi(p)p^{-s}}. $$ 
end lem
beg pf
This follows by Abel's summation formula and the fact that if you
sum all the $\phi(m)$-th roots of unity then you get $0$.

If $\Re(s)>1$ then the sum is absolutely convergent, allowing us
to arbitrarily re-arrange the terms.
end pf

A key character in the proof will be the Reimann Zeta function.
This is defined as follows.

beg lem
Let $\zeta(s)$ denote the analytic extension of $\sum_{n\ge
1}n^{-s}$ for $\Re(s)>1$ to a meromomorphic function on the whole
complex plane. This extension exists and is holomorphic except
for a pole at $s=1$.
end lem
beg pf
The typical way that analytic extensions work is by having a
functional equation that extends the definition of your function.
We will actually only require the Reimann zeta function on
$\Re(s)>0$, for which we can perform the extension using the
following simple observation:
$$\sum_{n\ge 1} n^{-s} - 2 (2n)^{-s} = \zeta(s)\left(1 - 1/2^{s-1}\right) = \sum_{n\ge 1} (-1)^{n-1}/n^{s}. $$
The RHS converges for all $s$ with $\Re(s)>0$.
Thus, for $s\in \C$ with $\Re(s)>0$ and $s\neq 1$ we can define
$$ \zeta(s) = \frac{1}{1-2^{1-s}} \sum_{n\ge 1} \frac{(-1)^{n-1}}{n^{s}}.$$ 

This seems like a nice enough proof. For sake of completeness
I'll include the other proof that I've seen in a lot of places:
Using integration to estimate the sum defining the zeta function
for $\Re(s)>1$ gives:
$$ \zeta(s) - \frac{1}{s-1} \le O(\sum_n 1/n^{s+1}).$$ 
And, the RHS is holomorphic for $\Re(s)>0$ so this extension
makes sense.
end pf

beg cor
Let $\chi_0$ denote the trivial character. 
Then $L(s,\chi_0)$ extends to a meromorphic function in $\Re(s)>0$ with the only pole at $s=1$.
end cor
beg pf
This follows immediately from the similar statement about
$\zeta(s)$.
end pf

beg lem
$$ \left| L(s, \chi) - \sum_p \frac{\chi(p)}{p^{s}}\right| \le 1618.$$ 
end lem
beg pf
For any $\Re(s)>1$ we have
$$ \log L(s, \chi) = -\sum_p \log(1 - \chi(p)p^{-s}). $$ 
Then, using the same Taylor Series tricks that we did in the
simple $m=4$ case we conclude the lemma.
end pf

Now we use the orthogonality relations developed for the
characters to extract the sum that we want:
beg lem
For any $a\perp m$, and all $\Re(s)>1$,
$$ \sum_{p \equiv a  \mod m} p^{-s} \ge \frac{1}{\phi(m)} \sum_\chi \overline{\chi(a)}\log L(s,\chi) - 100m.$$ 
end lem
beg pf
We apply the orthogonality relations to the previous lemma.
end pf

Our goal is to show that the sum on the LHS of the above lemma
diverges as $s\to 1$.
We already know that $L(s, \chi_0)\to \infty$ where $\chi_0$ is
the trivial character.
Thus, all that remains is to prove that for any $\chi\neq
\chi_0$, the positive contribution from $L(s, \chi_0)$ is not
cancelled out by $L(s, \chi)$. 
We already know that these $L(s,\chi)$ are convergent for $s=1$.
However, we are taking $\log L(s,\chi)$, so it would still be
problematic if  $L(s,\chi)=0$.
So, to finish, we will establish that for all  $\chi\neq \chi_0$
we have $L(1,\chi)\neq 0$.

> ok interesting note: we are considering $\log$ as a function on $\C$. gosh complex analysis is weird. In any case, according to chatgpt $\log(z)$ is defined as long as $z\neq 0$. 

> ok, side question, why was taking logarithms even a good move? I mean I guess estimating sums was easier than estimating products?

It seems like a somewhat strange concern.
I would have guessed that one can make a simple argument, just
grouping the terms of the sum appropriately, to show boundedness
away from zero. But that does seem a bit gross.
Anyways, to finish the proof we will prove this non-vanishing.

# Non-vanishing of non-trivial characters at $s=1$.

We define the function 
$$ \zeta_m(s) = \prod_\chi L(s, \chi). $$ 

The proof strategy is as follows:
beg rmk
[Note that while Thai Pham's notes are mostly excellent, 
I think he has some errors with regards to the proof strategy
here.]

We know that for $\chi\neq \chi_0$, $L(s, \chi)$ is analytic on all $\Re(s)>0$. 
We know that $L(s,\chi_0)$ is analytic on $\Re(s>0)$ with a
single pole at  $s=1$.
Suppose that $L(1,\chi)=0$ for some  $\chi\neq \chi_0$.
Then we $\zeta_m(s)$ would have no poles on $\Re(s>0)$ because
the zero would cancel the single potential pole.

We want to show that this cannot happen. 
We will assume for contradiction that $\zeta_m$ actually doesn't
have any poles.
But then there is a theorem that will allow us to evaluate
$\zeta_m(s)$ at  $s$ with $\Re(s)\in (0,1)$ using a certain
product formula. But the product formula will blow up,
contradicting our assumption that there are no poles.

end rmk


We will need two lemmas.
beg thm
[Landau]
Let $f(s) = \sum_{n\ge 1} a_n / n^{s}$ with real coefficients $a_n\ge 0$.
Suppose that this series converges for $\Re(s)>1$. 
Suppose further that $f$ extends to a holomorphic function on
$\Re(s)>0$. Then the series defining $f(s)$ converges for $\Re(s)>0$.
end thm
We omit the proof (for now at least, see Garrett).

beg lem
If $\Re(s)>1$ then 
 $$ \zeta_m(s) = \prod_{p \perp m} \left(\frac{1}{1-p^{-ord(p)s}}\right)^{\frac{\phi(m)}{ord(p)}}. $$ 
end lem
beg pf
This proof is nice but pretty straightforward and I'm omitting it for now.
end pf
beg rmk
Now magically, 
$$ \frac{1}{1-p^{-ord(p)s}} $$  is  a Dirichlet series with
positive real coefficients, and so thus $\zeta_m(s)$ is as well.
So we can use Landau's Theorem.
end rmk

beg thm
For any non-trivial character $\chi$ we have $\L(1, \chi)\neq 0$.
end thm
beg pf
We would like to show 

Assume for sake of contradiction that $\zeta_m(s)$ extends
holomorphically on $\Re(s)>0$.

Basically we are somehow going to use Landau's theorem to
evaluate the thing at a point where it blows up and get a
contradiction.
end pf

Apostol's Intro to ANYNT seems to contain a pretty reasonable
proof. Probably possible to synthesize with what I have so far.


