{title}
overlap of simply periodic binary functions
{contents}

{description}
In this section we use $0$-indexing, i.e., $[n]$ will denote
$\set{0,1,\ldots,n-1}$.

Let $f_a(x)$ denote a binary string consisting of  $a$ $0$'s
followed by $a$ $1$'s  and then repeating these $2a$ symbols.
We can equivalently describe $f_a$ as $f_a(x)= \floor{x/a}\bmod 2$.
We study $\sum_{x\in [ab]} f_a(x)\oplus f_b(x)$, in particular
bounding the difference of the sum from $\frac{ab}{2}$.

First, we reduce the case of non-coprime $a,b$ to the case of coprime $a,b$.
beg lem
  Fix $a,b\in \N$ with $d=\gcd(a,b)>1$.  Let $a_0=a/d,b_0=b/d.$
  Then $$\left|\sum_{x=1}^{ab} f_a(x)\oplus f_b(x)  - \frac{ab}{2}\right|\leq
  d^2\left|\sum_{x=1}^{a_0b_0}f_{a_0}(x)\oplus f_{b_0}(x) - \frac{a_0b_0}{2}\right|.$$
end lem
beg pf
We can view the sum in question as follows:
Take an $a \times b$ grid. Color even-numbered rows white and
odd-numbered rows black. 
Then invert the color of squares on every other set of $b$
"consecutive" cells, where consecutive allows wrap-around at the
border of the square.
Now we apply this combinatorial interpretation to prove the
desired inequality.

We transform such an $a_0 \times b_0$ grid and into an $a\times
b$ grid as follows: stretch each square into $d$ squares. Then
duplicate the grid $d$ times, possibly inverting the colors in
even indexed duplicates, and append these duplicates to the
bottom of the grid. Thus, we can bound the \defn{badness} --
i.e., deviation from half of the grid area -- by $d^2$ times the
badness before. And in general this is tight. That is, for some
$a,b$ it really will be $d^{2}$ times worse.
end pf

Now we analyze the main case: when $a,b$ are coprime.

beg lem
  Let $a,b$ be coprime. 
  $$ \sum_{x=1}^{ab} f_a(x)\oplus f_b(x) = \floor{ab/2}.$$
end lem
beg pf
  Define the \defn{color} of a point $x\in [ab]$ to be
  $f_a(x)\oplus f_b(x) \in \set{0,1}$.

  If $ab$ is even, there is a simple involution: $$x\mapsto
  ab-1-x.$$ We claim that this involution is color flipping, i.e., $$f_a(x)\oplus
  f_b(x) = 1 \oplus f_a(ab-1-x)\oplus f_b(ab-1-x).$$ 
  To see this, observe that for all integers $x$ we have
  $$\floor{\frac{x}{a}} \equiv 1 + \floor{\frac{-1-x}{a}} \mod 2.$$
  Thus, pairing terms we find that the sum in the lemma
  statement is
  exactly $\frac{ab}{2}$.

  If $ab$ is odd, the situation is slightly more subtle. 
  Let $\lambda$ be the unique solution in $[ab]$ to the system
  $$\lambda \equiv 1 \bmod a, \;\; \lambda \equiv -1 \bmod b.$$
  The existence of $\lambda$ is guaranteed by the Chinese
  remainder theorem.
  Furthermore, if $\lambda = ka+1=c b -1$ then $k\equiv c \bmod
  2$ because $a,b$ are odd.
  Observe that $\lambda^2\equiv 1\bmod ab$. 
  This means that $x\mapsto \lambda x$ is an involution. 

  We separate the fixed points from the non-fixed points.
  We have the following useful characterization of fixed points:
  $$\lambda x \equiv x \bmod ab \iff \lambda \equiv 0 \bmod
  b.$$
  To conclude the proof, we will show that:

  - Non-fixed points are sent to points with opposite
  color.
  - Of the $a$ fixed points, $\floor{a/2}$ are color $1$.

**CLAIM 1**: Let $x$ be a non-fixed point, i.e., $x\not\equiv 0\bmod b$. Then $x$ and $\lambda x$ have opposite color.

This is because
$$\floor{ \lambda x / a} = \floor{x(ka+1) / a} = kx+\floor{x/a}.$$
$$\floor{ \lambda x / b} = \floor{x(cb-1) / b} = cx+\floor{-x/b}.$$
But, we showed before $k\equiv c \bmod 2$. 
Thus, 
$$
  \floor{ \lambda x / a} + \floor{ \lambda x / b} \equiv
  \floor{x/a}+\floor{-x/b} 
 \not\equiv \floor{x/a} + \floor{x/b} \mod 2.
$$
**CLAIM 2:** Of the $a$ fixed points, $\floor{a/2}$ are color $1$.

Let $F = \set{b,2b,\ldots, (a-1)b}$ denote the fixed points
except for $0$.
We define a color flipping involution $\phi: F\to F$ by
$$yb \mapsto (a-y)b.$$

To see why this is color-flipping we compute:
$$\floor{\frac{yb}{a}}\oplus \floor{\frac{yb}{b}} \equiv y \oplus
\floor{\frac{yb}{a}} \mod 2.$$
$$\floor{\frac{(a-y)b }{a}}\oplus \floor{\frac{(a-y)b}{b}}
\equiv y \oplus \floor{\frac{-yb}{a}} \mod 2,$$
and note that $$\floor{\frac{-yb}{a}} \equiv 1\oplus \floor{\frac{yb}{a}}\mod 2$$
for $y\in \set{1,2,\ldots, b-1}.$

end pf

end pf
