{title}
Basic properties of primes based on residue mod 4
{contents}

{description}
Again #probfromthebook, this time discussing the classes of
primes congruent to $1,3 \mod 4$.
{body}

# background
Again "probfromthebook", this time discussing the classes of
primes congruent to $1,3 \mod 4$.
Let's call these classes $P_1,P_3$. 
Let's also define the set $Q_2$: numbers which are expressible as
a sum of squares.

Fermat's remarkable theorem says:
beg thm
$$P_1\subset Q_2$$
end thm
We prove this in several steps.
beg lem
Let $p=4k+1$ be prime.
$((2k)!)^ 2 \equiv -1 \mod 4k+1$
end lem
beg pf
$((2k)!)^ 2 \equiv (4k)!\equiv -1 \mod 4k+1$
by "wilson's theorem". To prove it from basic facts, note that 
$x^{2}\equiv 1$ has exactly $2$ solutions, namely $x=\pm 1$,
because $\F_p$ is a field.
Thus, all other things are not self-inverses, and we can pair
them up with their inverses. This just leaves $\pm 1$.
end pf

beg lem
Let $a\perp p$. Then there exist $x,y \le \sqrt{p}$ and $\sigma
\in \pm 1$ such that 
 $$a\equiv \sigma x^{-1}y \mod p$$
end lem
beg pf
pidgeon 
end pf

beg cor
If you put together the two lemmas and do some math you get the
desired result.
end cor
beg pf
exercise for reader
end pf

beg thm
Let $p\in P_3$, and let $x,y\in \N$ with $x\perp p$.
Then 
$p\not\mid x^{2}+y^{2}.$ 

In particular, $p\not \mid 1+n^2$ for any $n\in \N$.
end thm
beg pf
exercise for reader.
end pf


beg thm
$P_1,P_2$ are infinite
end thm
beg pf
exercise for reader.
Kind of like the proof that there are infinitely many primes.
end pf

beg thm
$Q_2$ is the set of numbers $n$ with  $\nu_p(n)\in 2\Z$ for all
$p\in P_3$.
end thm
beg pf
clear corollary of stuff we talked about so far.
end pf

# actual problem
beg thm
$4mn-m-n$ is not a perfect square
end thm
beg pf
Proof by contradiction.
Factor as 
$$(4m-1)(4n-1) = 4k^2 + 1.$$
Then, all prime factors of $4k^2+1$ should be in $P_1$. However,
the LHS is a product of things which are  $3\mod 4$.
Contradiction.

end pf


