{title}
infinitely many primes one more than a multiple of p
{contents}

{description}
Again #probfromthebook, this time discussing the infinitude of
some classes of primes.
{body}

There are lot's of prime conjectures that are unsolved.
- Are there infinitely many primes of the form $n^{2}+1$?
- Are there infinitely many primes of the form $2^{n}-1$?
    (Mersenne primes)
- Are there infinitely many primes $p$ where $2p+1$ is also
    prime? (Sophie Germaine primes)

All of these are open questions.
But here's a solved question:

beg thm
Let $p$ be prime. There are infinitely many primes $q$ for which
$p\mid q-1$.
end thm
beg pf
Oh actually the proof is kind of tricky. here goes.

Define the cylotomic polynomial
$$f_p(x) = 1+x+x^{2}+\cdots + x^{p-1}.$$

Observation 1:
$$f_p(pk) \perp pk(pk-1)$$
this is pretty clear.

Observation 2:
Say that prime $q\mid f_p(pk)$. 
Well, we know that $$q \mid (pk)^{p}-1.$$
Therefore the order $\mod q$ of  $pk$ satisfies $o_q(pk) \mid p$.
But the divisors of $p$ are $\set{1,p}$, and the order is not $1$.
Hence, 
$$o_q(pk) = p.$$
On the other hand, FLT says $o_q(pk) \mid \phi(q)=q-1$. 

Putting it all together gives $q\equiv 1 \mod p$.

Ok, so we're almost done. 
It will suffice to find an infinite set $k_1,k_2,k_3,\ldots$ such
that $f_p(pk_i)$ are all pairwise coprime.

One way of doing that is the following:
$$m_1=p, m_k=pf(m_1)f(m_2)f(m_3)\cdots f(m_{k-1}).$$
Then, $f(m_i)$ and  $f(m_j)$ have completely disjoint sets of
prime factors, and at least one of each of their prime factors is
one more than a multiple of  $p$ as desired.


end pf



